It. Ladies and gentlemen, the final major chess event of 2023 is over. The World Blitz championship concluded today. The open and the women's. We have champions. And in this video, I'm going to take you through an incredible day of games filled with action, filled with drama, as always. And a friendly reminder that if you never took advantage of the holiday sale of my courses, you still got a couple of days left because there's a new year's resolution you can make to yourself on improving your chess. All courses are 40% off. That's all I have to say. I am the sponsor of today's video, folks, it's round number 13. It is the second day of action at the World Blitz. We have to play a bunch more games. And we're going to start with Magnus Carlson versus Maximva Shellegrov. Now, you might remember yesterday, Dubov and Nepo, double forfeit. That was a major story. A double forfeit in the world Blitz championship for putting the game of chess into disrepute, as they were called. Well, Maximva Shellegrov, a world blitz champion in his own right from several years ago. This is always a very interesting matchup. We're going to get day two underway. Magnus opening up with his favorite opening. This is the Svezhnikov Sicilian. We haven't seen Magnus get a Svechnikov Sicilian on the board in a long time because it's his true and tried weapon. Most people, when they see Magnus play this, they play bishop to b five. That's called the Rossalimo. They try to take Magnus out of a place of comfort. But instead of that, Maxim plays directly into an open spanish knight. D five takes, takes. This line has been played many, many times. Many times. The world championship match between Fabiano Carawana and Magnus Carlson in 2018, that had all of about 250 spectators. Because nobody watched chess in 2018. Of course, I am joking, but none of you probably followed that match. A good amount of you. Some of you watched chess five years ago. Some of you weren't even born five years ago. Some of you have the mental maturity of somebody who wasn't born five years ago. Okay, now that we've gotten the early video insults out of the way, let's proceed with this game. In this type of Svezhnikov setup, generally, Magnus attacks with his EnF pawns, and he kind of allows the queen side to just stand still. Now, this approach by MvL is clearly something that he has prepared because nobody just bulldozes into a position like this, grabbing a pawn and not developing their pieces Magnus plays bishop d seven and queen c eight. But MVL, at the end of the day does just have an extra pawn. Now. He plays rook a three. Magnus gets rid of the knight so it doesn't control the c seven square anymore and tries to trade off some of Maxime's pieces. Maxim plays, takes finally castles and now safeguards his queenside with c four and basically says, look, magnus, you're Magnus, but I'm MVL and I have three initials in my name, so it's cool. Also, I'm upon king f one. Magnus plays e four, creating counterplay. Maxim says, what about a queen trade? How are you going to beat me when we trade queens? And Magnus plays 93. Oh, he sacrificed the rook. This man just sacrificed the full rook in an endgame to just get this. This man, Maxime, gives up a rook for a night, down 40 seconds on the clock. And he basically says, magnus, my bishop is better than any of these rooks. You can't use your pawns. Your rook can't get to the e file unless it does this little three point turn in a parking lot. And then I'm just going to push the rest of my pawns. So what does Magnus do exactly that. He puts his rook on the e file. In the meantime, Maxime got his pawn back. So he has a bishop and two pawns. And Maxime courageously goes for a rook versus bishop endgame. Because he's correct. This is winning. This is an endgame where there is nothing that Magnus can do. F four, e four. He tries to create counterplay with his rook. It's not good enough. Here comes a six. The last line of defense has been stripped. Here come the pawns. Maxim's pawns are faster. Oh, my goodness. Maxim Vashe Lagrav has defeated the best endgame player of all time by sacrificing a rook for a knight for a beautiful technical conversion. Oh, this is crazy. This is the drama that we didn't the first game of the day. They started a little bit early on day two. Chess tournaments always do that. They always start the last day of the event a little bit early because I guess people have to travel home or the organizers don't want to stay late or maybe the hotel fees are expensive. This is just game over. Because by the time the black King makes it here, I'll just move my bishop, but by then I'll also queen, so I'm too fast. What an end game. What a technical conversion. A beautiful, sophisticated rook sacrifice from one of the best blitz players in the world. Maximva Shellegrov. Magnus lost his first loss. He played 25 26 games of chess. Now, at this point, something funny happened. All right, I am as guilty as the next person. I am perhaps the most guilty of farming Magnus for content. Farming, milking, as the young ins in the comments section say, milking the cow for content. But they followed Magnus to a lake. Magnus went for a walk by the lake after his loss. Now, I don't think this is chess 20 four's video. I think somebody must have recorded, maybe it was chess base India. Because chess base India is on site. They are doing an excellent job covering the event. They have a ton of live boards. I would never follow Magnus to a lake after a loss. I don't have the social anxiety for that. They're just filming him like an animal walking in a zoo. But this is pretty cool. On a serious note, I wonder what he's listening to. Also, how close is he to the lake? Could somebody just tip him in with like a finger? Hilarious. Anyway, they record Magnus gathering himself and there was comments here that were like, he's about to go cook. This is crazy. And no, it's cool. It's cool to have footage like this. I could never though somebody else has to do know. I'll put him up in YouTube videos and you guys will watch videos of Magnus playing. But Magnus lost. Crazy. Will he be able to bounce back? Or will guys like Artemyev, guys like Dubov, guys like Nepo, are they going to make a run? Well, they are winning their games here and there. It's a big race of folks at the top. Magnus comes back, he plays against Alexi Serrano. He plays a sideline of the Sicilian, plays bishop to e two. All right. Then later he plays kind of a more open Sicilian. Now we're sort of in a nidorf. Bishop b seven, bishop f three. Magnus attacks the queenside, gets his rook into the game, targets the bishop on b seven. Serrano, defends the bishop on b seven. Magnus Carlson, inspired by the actions of the frenchman with three names, sacrifices the rook, bulldozes the center of the board with e five. And now, before he takes the knight, Zvishanzug gives a check, forces a defensive move, and then, knowing that he's about to lose his knight, not just as Vichenzug in this position. Magnus Carlson plays a desperado sacrifice knight, takes e six. His logic was, I'm going to lose my knight anyway, so I should sacrifice it to open up my opponent's position. And then I'm going to get the knight back. And before I do that, I'm going to throw in a check for good measure, because if g six, I'll take and I'll threaten the rook, and I can't get taken because of the pin. Oh, my God. That walk on the leg just inspired a madman. Serrano down to 40 seconds. Magnus taking all the things Serrano has ever worked for. The king is trying to desperately run to safety. Actually, the advantage almost slips away, according to the computer. But black is always under pressure in this position. Serrano does a ridiculous job, by the way, of fighting back with 10 seconds on the clock. Because every player here is good. Every player here is a monster. But then, Magnus, look at this. Bishop to g five. Check discovered. Attack on the rook. Gets the rook back. And black's king just never gets comfortable with 5 seconds on the clock. You are destined to lose this game. And he does. Bishop to c six. Apparently he crawled all the way back. He should have been a little bit more patient, maybe. Queen B six. Covering the a seven score. Even taking on b two by the computer was okay. Magnus comes back from the lake rejuvenated. All right, he wins that game. Now he's playing against our generic ic e four, c five. Knight f three, e six. Magnus playing a different way against the Sicilian now. Now he's playing like a king's indian attack. Bishop g two. Bishop e seven. Castles. Queen c seven, a four. Taking a little bit of space away on the queen side. Eragic playing also just a very patient game. Maneuvering the knight back to h seven. Magnus knight f one, h four. This is the typical attacking pattern in the king's indian attack. You wrap around the knight like this. Black needs to create queenside counterplay or he's going to get demolished. All right, here comes black with queenside counterplay. Knight B four and d four. Magnus comes back to attack the knight. Rook d eight, b three. Bishop to b seven. Magnus takes. He takes to alleviate some of the pressure, and so the pawns can't actually do any damage. Now he needs to defend his pawn, and then he's going to potentially continue the attack or put the knight on c four. Put the knight on e four, trade the bishops. What are we going to get? Okay, there we go. We have a trade. The knight is going to the queenside. There it is. We defend the pawn. Arjun. Eric isi creating counterplay with the only pawn that he has. Magnus zips around, continues to fight for the light squares. With queen f three, king g eight. Arjun has no problems. It's a very solid position, but it's still very much a maneuvering game. Okay, we have the entirety of the a file, and Ericaisi's got 40 seconds. There goes g four. We're creating pressure on all the sides of the board. F six. But now 94. Adding more pressure. Ericaisi's time ticking below 30 seconds, Magnus trades away the knight. Very good decision. Why close position two. Pawns on the dark squares. By playing like this, black is going to really struggle to get his pieces into the game. Now he's going for an end game eragic. Down to less than 20 seconds. He loses a pawn. His bishop is still garbage. And now we sack the queen because we get it right back. And we have a rook and knight endgame versus rook and Bishop with an extra pawn with extra 30. 34 seconds on the clock and the added bonus of being named Magnus Carlson. We are now up two pawns in an end game. D four. We're only up one now, but we're coming in now. What's funny is that the evaluation here is, like, throughout this point was like plus one and a half, plus two. The computer was screaming for certain ways of converting, but Magnus does it his own way. He does it like this. Rookie six. Rook c six. Oops. Oops, right? Apparently it was better to go rookie seven. Blitz is just about playing on instinct and playing on feel. And apparently this is plus twelve. This is plus 37. Plus 36. It says plus 35, but it's plus 35 and a half. And I'm rounding up. Instead of all of that, Magnus finds a way. Look, g six first is apparently winning, and then you have to play rook g one here. But instead of that, rook f eight. A very, very stressful game. But Magnus. Oh, my goodness. What is going on? It's equal again. It's equal what? 94. And then Magnus finds a way to win it by still. Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. Oh, that was crazy. There was like, m in the evaluation so many times. It was over. It was completely over. You had to seal the door. I guess Magnus didn't, didn't see a way after rook c eight, but there's g seven, rook f eight or something, and it's just wild. 40 seconds versus ten. He was trying to bury Eric icy. Credit to Eric icy, who was getting his way out of the end game so many times. I mean, we could analyze all of this. We could analyze all the drawing mechanisms. It's night and three versus rook. Like, it's very hard to draw this with 5 seconds on the clock, but the computer seems to think it's drawable, which is kind of nuts. But Magnus wins again. Now popping into the women's section for a second. All right, we have Costanuk, and we have Guna. Yesterday, we had a Valentina Guniona running away with the event. Already a massive lead. Costanuk caught up. She got very, very close. And in the 15th round of the event, because they have 17 rounds, Gunyana lost. She lost the game. I think they have 17 rounds. I never know, because they don't do the same. The men have 21. It's technically not even the men. It's like the open section, but I'm not even sure there is a woman playing in the open section. It's really weird. I got to double check this. But some of you ask in the comments section about this. It's a subject for a very long video that I probably will do at some point. But anyway, for now, let's focus on what we have and things that we not on, things we can't really control or have all the answers to. Point is, there are 17 rounds, for some reason. And yesterday, Guniana was crushing. But in the 15th round, Gunion lost. And because Guniana lost, it allowed Kostanuk to catch up. She was very close. She was half a point away, and it came down to the final round, literally. So if Kostanuk wins and Gunyana doesn't, Costanuk might win the world. Blitz. Or we go to a tiebreak. So we have a karo khan. We have a tartakawer. Very, very popular opening nowadays, especially this line with knight a six and black rerouting the knight like this. 92. The knight goes to c seven. Black plays like this, developing the knight via c seven, potentially to attack the queenside, potentially to get back into the center. F three. Bishop H five. Black plays Bishop G six and puts the rook on e eight. It's a very, very balanced game. Bishop F five, Bishop E six. She really wants to trade the bishop. White says no. Now black puts a bunch of pawns on the 6th rank. Just kind of like this, playing like this, tucking the elbows, looking for a fight. F five. Bishop goes back. But how are you going to actually win this game? It's a very standard tarctic hour, which is really, really solid. But okay. C four. And now Costanuk decides she's had enough. And in this position, plays h five and starts attacking her opponent with the pawn of her own king. Rookie seven slides the queen to f four. Taking a little bit more space away from her opponent. The d five square looks really good. We trade. We put the bishop on e six. We put the knight on d five. Whose knight is better? Both knights have outposts in their opponent's position. Rook d seven, rookie seven. We're repositioning. We're preparing. Bishop D seven. White advancing on the queenside. We trade the queens. We have rookie one. Check. Forcing out the king. Look at the time, though. Look at the time. The time is definitely on Costanuk's side with Black 97. White is still trying to break through on the queenside. Very desperate situation. Rook a two. 8 seconds remaining. 16 for Black. Bishop d one. Knight C three. White is completely solid. She takes on b five. Rook a two. And the pawn is a runaway. But Black is going to get back in time. The bishop is either going to get back or the knight is going to get back. Knight d three. And Black's pawn makes it. Black's pawn is the one that crosses the center line. Black is now a piece up. And she's got to convert this game without losing on time. She will. Alexandra Kostenuk. A very tense endgame. Middle game and endgame in the Karokan. She wins. She wins her game. Which means it all comes down to Gunyana. If Gunyana wins this game, she is the world champion of Blitz. If she loses, Costanuk is the world champion of Blitz. If she draws. I think they play a tiebreak. Maybe they do play a tiebreak. Takes. Takes queen. King d two. Bishop C four, h four. H five. This is a groonfeld. It's a very, very balanced position. Knight a five. Bishop slides back. Bishop goes to e six. Knight is trying to come to c four. White advances, taking space away. Very engine like. All right? Very, very like alpha zero like idea. Knight G five. Bishop C four. Knight hits the bishop. The bishop goes back to the corner. White is making steady progress here with the king. The king is brave. And now the rooks are going to come over here to put pressure on the queenside. Black tries to fight back, but White is advancing. White is advancing into the black position. Rook c. Look at this. Excellent control. This bishop is kind of a non factor, which is why we love putting that bishop in the corner like that. G four. That bishop is going to perish in the corner. D five. Taking all the space away. Now Black has to kind of commit pawns back. But White is just ruthless. Gudina walks all of her opponents down like the terminator. Look at this. Rook c two. Rook f one. Taking the f file. Black has absolutely no moves remaining. Rook g five is basically mate. You go here and this is going to be mate. In a couple of moves the bishop comes to sacrifice itself for the defense. There is nothing to be done. Look at this. Absolutely ruthless domination of the black position. Every piece defended. Not the pawn on h six, but it's untouchable because then this leads to a mate on h two. Bishop f six takes. Valentina Gunina wins the last game like the Terminator walking down her opponent. Excellent game. And she wins. Alexandra Costanyuk, the runner up by half a point in the women's. I will show you the final standings in a moment, my friends. There was crazy games going on all over. Magnus goes on a winning streak. Meanwhile, Dubov and Artemyev are also cooking it up in the kitchen. Shakriar Mamidyarov versus Artemyev. This is a massive game. Now, what do we know about Mamidyarov? My man always is ready to throw down. G four. Playing in a gambit style, coming straight at Artemiev. Artemyev says, you know what, if you're going to attack me on this side, well, I guess I'm going to have to go the other way. I'm going to Castle Queenside. Artemyev, one of the most technical players in the game. One of the most methodical, strategic guys in the game. He's very, very, very good. Very good defender, very patient player. King b one. King b eight. Takes, takes rookie one. Bishop to b four. How is Mamijarov going to create some chaos. Mamijarov always looking for a battle somehow. Knight e four. All right, DC knight takes. Artemyev is a simple man. You give him knight for bishop, he's going to take it. He's also got the connected pawns, but he's down 30 seconds. Queen f six. He grabs the knight. He knows this is not the best move, but he's a technical player. And he goes to an end game with white having damaged pawns because even though he has 8 seconds on the clock, that is all he needs to work with. Rookie eight, Mamajarov pinning h four. But it's all he needs to work with. Now watch as he just the same way as Gunyana did it in a tactical way. Watch as Artemyev walks down. His opponent gives up the bishop for the night. What? Why would he do that? For simplicity. The bishop is better than the knight in the long run. But he grabs a pawn, he wins a pawn. Yes. It gives white the opportunity to maybe advance, which is exactly what Mamidyarov is going to do. And now the computer doesn't even like Black's position as much as it did. But it's simplicity. It's a matter of simplicity. And it allows Artemyev to play with less than 10 seconds on the clock. My friends, how long has Artemiav had 10 seconds since, like this. Literally since the 22nd move of the game, Artemiev has had 6 seconds on the clock, and he completely outmaneuvers a 27 50 rated opponent. That's his blitz rating. King b three. Rook d two. Artemis just straight up outplaying the guy with 10 seconds remaining. He gets 2 seconds bonus every time he makes a move. Patience. Patience. Knight c four. And now, boom, rookie four. Played with 5 seconds on the clock. Sacrifices to get a check. Pick up this, and it's over. E seven. I was going to say e seven. Knight d six. Or rook h eight. Or king d seven. What a game from Artemyev. Clutch. Ice water in his veins. After 16 rounds of action, Artemyev leads the event. He leads the event. He's half a point ahead of Magnus Dubov. Where's my man Dubov? Dubov is half a point ahead of Magnus as well. Half a point. He's very close to Magnus. He's half a point behind. But the man who walked by the lake, Magnus Carlson, playing against serbian grandmaster Alexander Indich, plays a nimso. Plays a solid nimso. Typical Magnus. All right, solid opening. Let's see. Tries to open up the position. Play c four. Look at indich. F four. Very nice position. But these bishops looking a little bit suss, as the kids say. Rook b eight. Wait, what? Isn't that a fork? Yeah, that is a fork. What? Well, the idea, I guess, is this. If you take, I take with check, and then I get into your position. All of this is weak, and these pieces suck. But it just straight up looks like Magnus hung a fork. No. Rook a two. Yo. Magnus is still trying to hang the fork. Okay, he still hung it, but now at least queen e three is okay. Now, this is a real fork. So he stops it. But this move is an indication that the position's about to open. And Magnus gets his knight in. Just grabs a pawn on the edge of the board and drives the knight in a matter of, like, five moves. They went from 139 119 to white, having 8 seconds on the clock. Five moves, four moves. This is move 17. This is move 21. Magnus freezes you in his tracks. Knight takes queen e six. Queen f five. Take the light squares. Stop g four. Paralyze your opponent's pieces. Boom, boom, boom, boom. Discovered attack on the rook, hits the queen, the game is over. You take. I take cleanup. Rook b two. Queen d two. Ladder. Mate is coming. Mate on all of these squares might be possible if you give it him up. Magnus wins again. Oh, my. Magnus is a man on a mission. He just won again. That was all after losing the first game of the day. Now, Daniel Duboff, Fabiano Carawana. E four, e five. Night f three. Night c six. All right, we have a solid game to start. Rookie one, a four. Fabiano, if he wins this game, is in the running for first. If Dubov wins this game, he is in the running for first. It's a big maneuvering battle. D four. Knight takes. But. Whoa. Sacrificing a bishop is Fabi trying to get the Knight back. The bishop drops all the way back. He's just a pawn up. He's just upon up Dubov's, and now he's grabbing a second pawn. Dubov invited him in. Whoa. He grabs a pawn and then he sacks the knight because. Queen e six. Rookie four. So Duboff sacrifices the rook. Desperate times, desperate measures. He's just trying to attack this. This. As you can tell from stockfish, it is not impressed. Fabiano Carawana is about to join the top three. Knight takes f eight. Courageous move. If black gets two moves in a row, it's mate. But it's chess. You don't get two moves in a row. Queen h three. I have this incredible night. Check. Deflecting your knight. You have to spend time, and in that time, I grab a very important pawn, which prevents you from making much forward progress. You can play knight h four, but then I will check you. And that is exactly what happens. But how do I stop this? And this. Oh, my God. How do I stop that? There's only one way. If the evaluation is plus four and a half. But there's only one move to find it, and you have 12 seconds remaining. Is it really plus four and a half? Because Fabiano doesn't find it. The best move is rook to d eight. Because what, after you sacrifice, that's mate? Nope. The knight is in the way. What? The idea is to stop the bishop blocking the king. So you can go check. King h seven. Queen e four. With check. If the king goes back, you have check here and the same pattern, and then you go mate. And if queen e four. And let's say black plays g six. Queen b seven. The bishop stops the escape, and rookie eight is going to be mate. But instead of that, Fabiano sacks the queen and gets the knight. And now, it's a draw, but it's a very difficult draw because Duboff's queen and bishop are very, very, very angry. Queen c two. King f one. And all of a sudden, white's defenses crumble. Fabiano panics. Rook b five. Oh, my goodness. He's giving checks. And here Fabiano has to move his f pawn so that queen d one. He has king f two, but he loses. That's the final move of the game. King to g eight. And I'm willing to bet Fabiano lost on time. He didn't have a check. He was struggling to find a move. Maybe he resigned and didn't see the f pawn can move. But I'm pretty sure Fabiano lost on time because queen d one is coming, and you can't move any of these pieces. But f three, and it's very unpleasant. It's a very unpleasant position, but it's not completely lost. And Daniel Dubov catches the leaders. He catches the leaders. So it all comes down to the performance of a certain Magnus Carlson. As always, if Magnus is clutch, he's going to take the lead and hang onto it. He's playing Yu Yang yi. I mean, he plays some crazy silent. I've never seen this in my h three. Never, ever seen this in my life. I got to look this up after c four. Playing into a sideline against Yu Yangi. Yu Yangi trying to fight back against the center. Magnus takes the center 95. Very nice idea. He's upon up, by the way, knight. Ooh, says Yu yangi. You want the pawn so bad, you got to give up the bishop. Yep, give up the bishop. Castles d five. Holding onto the center. Knight takes d five. Magnus says, bishops versus knights. Who's going to win? Bishop f four. Let's trade the queens. Let's trade the queens. Let's trade everything. Now I have a pawn two squares away from queening indefinitely. It's going to be a headache for you. Rook d one. Rook d eight. Rook d four, a four. Is he going to sack the rook? He's not going to sack the rook. He's not going to sack the rook? Not yet. First, he needs to pry away the defenses from the black position, and Yu Yang Yi blunders. He thinks all of this is solid, but all Magnus needed was to open up that side of the board, because after takes takes, he has c seven, and the game is over. The game is over because normally you go here and you win. But rook d one backrank mate. Rook d eight is a threat. So instead of that, we have rook f eight, Bishop b seven. You can't stop the promotion if you go back. I take and then I get in. So Yu Yangi tries to use his pawns. C eight, queen. He's Magnus freaking Carlson. You think he's scared of a couple of pawns? Rook a five. The bishop cuts everything. Rook c five. He's just too fast. His king is way too fast. All those pawns are like potato chips. B three. He grabs one and Yu yangi resigns because he's not going to be able to push the other pawns through. What a game from Magnus. Here we go. We're going to keep it moving, by the way. That's all in a row. Let's watch with black e four. E five. Against young Shishtab Duda, one of the best players in the world. Bishop E seven. He plays the Dubov. That's the Dubov line, right? Excuse me? The Dubov line. Sorry, I don't watch a lot of games with black. That's. Correction. The Dubov line is against the Italian. This is just the mainline Spanish. My mouth moved faster than my brain. But in the Italian, with the bishop on c four. Dubov likes to play Bishop e seven. Magnus has worked with Dubov in the past. Hence, that's where my brain went. That was a very stupid thing to say, and I apologize. Consider this my youtuber. Apology. Mainline Spanish. Damn it, Ansi Marshall. Magnus loves to play d five, right? He loves to play d five. So how's he going to get this one done? B four. Duda trying to limit him. But now we see Magnus pointing his bishop at his opponent's kingside. H six. Let's trade the bishops. All right. Bishop is still. Okay, you want to trade? That's pretty lame, yon, but we can do that now. Okay. I'm still going to create an attack. Let's trade the queens. Funny stuff here, by the way. You could go here, here. But instead of that, he's trying to do this. But he plays king f one. And now, instead of taking the night, we desperado the night to damage our opponent's structure. So we both have damaged pawns. But I'm going for this and I'm going for the d file. So what are we going to do? King f seven, rook, rook, trade. It's a rook and night. Endgame. And I want the apon. There it is. B three. I'm going to get it. There it is. I'm going to get it. The position collapses. Magnus Carlson has a two minute time advantage. He has 154 to 5 seconds. How does this man make this so easy? The outside pass pawn is going to be a menace. The computer thinks this position is defendable. The computer is not. Young Shishtav Duda. Weak pawns, two connected passers. The king is going to walk over. Stockfish can defend this position. But JKD ain't stockfish. He's a human being. Right. With a nervous. What just happened? How did that. Well, as it so happens, JKD is stockfish. He's defending this position against Magnus. It's a complete draw now. It's a complete draw. There's nothing to play for. Total draw. King G said, all right, Magnus is going to do his best, but he's not. No, he's going to draw this game. Yeah, that was blitz. It's blitz. And just like in the Ericaisi game, just like in the Ericaisi game, sometimes the plot twists are kept until the very end and Magnus wins. A tense, unpredictable, but fifth game in a row. And this is the final game of today's recap. It is Magnus versus report. It is a french defense. Magnus trying to slow down the explosive nature of his opponent. Report always looking for complications and an interesting battle. Magnus says, I don't want any of that. Let's play an exchange. French. Let's let report try to create a fight in a position where there might not be a fight warranted. Let's get the knight for the bishop, just like I did against Yu Yangi. Let's keep it slow, keep it nice and chill, nice and easy. Report goes back because he's like, I got to guard my pawn where my pawn is hanging. So he goes back. Queen D seven. Magnus maneuver. Magnus wins the pawn anyway. Magnus wins the pawn anyway. Rookie one. And then just says, look, man, I'm just pawn up. I'm just up a pawn. I got six pawns. You got five. That's it. You going to defend this position? Queen E, six. Good luck. Queen and rook, Endgame. Here we go. G three. King G two. F three. And a lot of tactics are flying all over the board. But queen c two is just game over. Queen d four. Trade the queens, winning pawn. Endgame. There it is. Two pawns up. Two pawns up. We pushing. We pushing. P. Actually, it's pushing. D. Pause. King goes out. Queen B. It's over. There is no perpetual check. This is promotion. It takes 57 moves. Magnus Carlson wins a 6th game in a row. And that is all she wrote. Artemyev and Dubov were close, but no cigar. And my friends these are your standings. Magnus Carlson wins his 17th world title with 16 out of 21. He lost one game in 34 games of chess over five days. He only lost to NBL and then he won six in a row. That is what we call greatest of all time stuff. He loses a game, wins six games in a row, makes a couple of draws along the way. How about this for a sleeper story? Daniel Dubov would have tied Magnus for first place if he didn't make a gimmick draw against Yanya Pomashi. Dubov lost half a point. That's crazy. He would have had 16 points. Vladislav Artemiev in third with the bronze MBL standalone 4th 14 and a half. Very very close. And on the women's side of things, vitentian Naguyana half a point, 14 to 13 and a half. And then it wasn't even close. It was a point after that. A point after that. And they crushed the women's side, folks. It's over. Magnus Carlson, rapid and blitz champion back to back years. Best in the world. He doesn't have to be the classical world champion. Best in the world. This was fun. This was fun. I hope you enjoyed these recaps. Tomorrow we will continue with our regularly scheduled programming. Get out of here. Bye.