It, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of recording this video, it's currently December 25, 2023, here in New York City. So I would like to wish you all a merry Christmas. And if you're not celebrating Christmas or if it's already December 26, where you're watching in the world, or you're watching in 2024 and beyond, well, hope you have a good holiday season overall, sending nothing but health, happiness, and all that good stuff. Tons of chess, elo to you and your loved ones and your pets and even your enemies. Now, here in the United States, it's tradition on Christmas day to avoid your family at all costs and minimize social interactions. On a serious note, there's a lot of sporting events on television, basketball, football, like the one you throw, not the one you kick for whatever reason. Now, to continue that tradition, I'm going to show you a sporting event. I'm going to show you Magnus Carlson versus Hikaru de Kamura from title Tuesday, which recently completed, concluded. And Magnus and Hikaru, when they play in title Tuesday, I know they're thinking about this YouTube channel because they disrespect each other so viciously. It's a mean the two of them play chess like nobody should play chess ever. And I'm going to show you the game that they played recently because it was another catastrophe. It was ridiculous, but it was also incredible to witness. It's also Christmas. All courses are 40% off. Link is in the description. Get yourself a present. Get someone you love or hate a present. Get something for yourself. Enjoy the holidays. Hope you're all doing well. Here we go. E four. Oh, and speaking of Christmas presents, I got a book here on the table. Over 50,000 of these have been purchased since the book came out October 24. So if you got it for yourself or you got it for somebody, you know, I mean, just really, thank you from the bottom of my heart. It's just unbelievable to see how big the book is trending, both in the UK, us, multiple other language editions as well. And here is the position after one move from each side. E four, a six. Now, recently, Hikaru has been playing a three against Magnus in the opening, which is a move. I mean, it's a legal move. And then Magnus will play something like e five, or sometimes Magnus will play also a six or g six. But this time Hikaru goes for a regular move and Magnus plays a six. Now, normally, of course, for White to take the center with. If you have an opportunity to put two pawns in the center of the board. You should generally hear Magnus and Hikaru when they're playing like this, will put one of these pawns in the center, and then they're going to try to fight for the center. They're just going to try to justify this move as like a first move that's disrespectful. But then after that, they're going to play normally. No, what Magnus does in this game should not be replicated. Frankly, it shouldn't even be observed. Magnus plays Knight to c six, and as early as the second move of the game, the game review is calling him an idiot. This is called the St. George Woodchuck variation. I don't think that's real. I think somebody made that up. And the point is that if you're going to put pieces in the center that can be attacked by pawns, it's a very dangerous game you're playing, especially if the side is not overextending. For example. Now, Magnus could go 95 and Hikara could go f four and then knight g six. But if you overpress, black just gets the knight comfortably in the center, then defends it, and then is going to try to break apart White's position. So with White, you've got to stop your troops a little bit early. Now, Magnus here plays not 95 and not even knight b eight. Undeveloping to the home square. This bozo plays knight a seven. I mean, if you have a role model in chess and you watch them do this, that's crazy. That's crazy. This man just played a six, knight c six, and camps out behind the pawn. That's nuts. Now, Hikaru just takes as much space as possible, puts three pawns in the center. He wants his knights to go behind the pawns. Right? Now, the thing is, this is not completely lost. It's pretty bad for black. But watch as Magnus makes this work, because half his name is literally magic, right? Technically, the word magic, it's three quarters in his name. Three fifths, not three quarters, three fifths. 60% of the word magic is in Magnus's name. So c four. And now he plays not a center pawn move. Not e six, trying to fight against the center like this. Or e five. No, this dude plays b five. Four moves by Magnus have been made. Three of them are given dubious move. That's dubious. That's dubious. And that's dubious as well. That's nuts. Now, if white takes, you justify black's play. Black is going to take back with the pawn. Then he's probably going to attack on the queenside, he's going to play c six, e six, and slowly he's going to get out of the position. Now after b five, white can also ignore this completely because you're defended. You can just play knight f three, which is the best move, or knight c three. You are a little bit concerned about this pawn just in the future, just kind of lurking over there. Hikaru immediately makes a mistake. And now the computer here is at a high depth. It thinks that the position is plus 1.6. It thinks that white has a very big advantage. But it's actually not the stupidest opening in the world because black is going to just start striking at these pawns. And like I said, if you overextend with white, suddenly you're going to get slapped around and then black is going to put a bishop out and he's going to put a knight out and he's going to start taking at your center. And you thought you had a big advantage, but you don't. Hikaru plays c five, which is a mistake. And now Magnus has a well timed strike at two pawns in white center. And somehow his opening doesn't look entirely idiotic. Okay, e six. Hikaru plays bishop to e three. A natural developing move, defending the pawn on c five. Magnus plays knight f six. He's not taking. There is just tension on the white center. All the pawns that white put out. Now white has to take accountability for. If white plays knight c three, he's going to get hit with this move. B four, that stupid pawn that walked out there because of this completely absurd woodchuck defense. How many chucks can a Magnus chuck if a woodchuck could? I'm just going to shut up. Okay. B four is going to be on the board. So Kikaru defends his pawns with his queen. That's a dangerous game you're playing, okay? Because the fact that the queen has to babysit the queen's very valuable and very powerful and the queen's got to be very careful. Now, Magnus takes, Hikaru takes. And Magnus plays d six. But D six is a crazy move because he's opening his bishop. But what about his knight? His knight is completely locked away. It doesn't have any moves. Now. It can't go here. It can't eat its own pawn. You can't push the pawn because I'm going to take. Well, it turns out Magnus had the right plan all along. And now all Magnus has to do is actually just go. G six, Bishop G seven. And castle. And he's just vibing. He is completely vibing. Vibing is in fact the official evaluation of the computer. Like, black's just going to castle and have absolutely no problems and at some point bring this knight back into the game instead of that. Like I said, these guys are out for maximum disrespect against each other. So here comes knight g four. Knight g four defended by the bishop. Looking to get Hikaru's bishop and then develop the bishop like this, to this diagonal, not to play g six. Bishop G seven. Magnus getting provocative very early in this game. Now computer really wants Hikaru to play a four. But Hikaru doesn't feel comfortable sabotaging even more development. So he plays Knight c three, which is also given a fat, dubious mark by the computer. But the computer can go drink some eggnog. Bishop E seven, played by Magnus. You cannot take this pawn. This is so provocative by Magnus, but you just can't take it because your queen is trapped. What? How does. The queen is just completely trapped. Black has whatever that is, all right. And a queen is trapped. So Bishop e seven. Now Kukaru should probably play long castle or knight f three. But he plays bishop to f four. He tries to get the bishop out of the way. He says, you know what, Magnus? You don't want my knight. No problem. Magnus is like, I never wanted your knight anyway. Bozo castles. And suddenly, suddenly you're like, wait a, wait a second. Remember I told you in the beginning of the game, like, white pushed all these pawns out. But how do we know that he's not overextending? Yeah, we don't know. In fact, these pawns are definitely overextended and they're going to be targets for these pieces. And they're not actually restricting that much space because once black moves the bishop, he's going to be able to get the knight in the game very quickly. He's going to zigzag it or come this way. So suddenly Hikaru is just in very difficult shape. Here comes Magnus with the bishop. Here comes Magnus with the rook. On the straightaway he's got the knight playing the bishop, playing the rook, playing. The bishop's getting out. This pawn's coming. And knight b five is on the way as well. Hikaru blocks the check. Magnus doesn't give him any time to relax. Pawn to b four. Activating that goofy knight. The goofy knight is coming to b five. Oh, my goodness. Great pressure here by Magnus. Pressure with the knight. Pressure with the bishop position is equal. Hikaru's knight goes back to d one because he wants to cover up. He wants to block the file and he didn't feel comfortable putting the knight on the edge of the board. Who can blame him? Who can blame him? The knight has no return home. Right. Black is just going to play rook b eight. Shuff five. Knight b five. Like it's a very uncomfortable position. So he plays the knight to d one. And here comes Magnus's knight. The knight that went c six a seven is now on b five. And somehow the best player in the world is making it work from all three sides. Finally. Oh, never mind. I was going to say finally it's time to castle. But clearly Hikaro didn't like something about this move. It's kind of hard to understand what though. Like maybe he didn't exactly see a plan. But he goes h three. He decides, I need to play h three now I need to kick Magnus's knight out of the center. But Magnus's knight goes to e five. And now we have a problem. We have a problem because you can't just trade. Why not? Because de. And you've overextended. You've overextended. That pawn is not an asset. I'm going to play Bishop f five. By the time you castle. I'm playing knight d four. And now nobody can protect the pawn. We can chop chop and you can try to defend it. But I'm going to win that pawn. I'm going to play Bishop e four. Your knight can't actually get out. Crazy. This is hanging. But black is going to win both these pawns. The two pawns. Hikaru marched into Magnus's position because Magnus didn't take the center. So it's kind of absurd. Knight e five. Knight to e three is a mistake. Magnus takes on f three, puts the knight on d four anyway. And is just better. He's just better. May I remind you his opening four moves looked like this. B five. That is what you can play as a top player in the world against Hikarna Kamura 32 40 rated. And you could play like this. And by the 15th move of the game somehow you maneuver and I mean, it's bogus how these guys do this. Knight b five. Sorry. Knight d four. This is the position Hikaru has to play Bishop d one. And now it's very instructive how Magnus maneuvers his pieces because Hikaru just wants to go here. So really there is only one move in this entire position for black that creates what's called an initiative. An initiative is a series of moves in chess where you create threats while also improving your position in the future. For the future. So how do you do that here? Rookie four, what a move. Putting the rook directly in the center and attacking White's bishop, which seems easy enough to defend. But the second the bishop leaves the diagonal, black is just going to strike at this knight. So black is going to play knight f five and bishop g five and black is defending b four. So rookie four attacks it, protect it, attack. And most importantly, it eats snack. That's what it's going to do. So Hikara plays here, which is a losing mistake. Apparently he had to go Bishop h two. Apparently there was a difference between these two moves because now the knight no longer hits the bishop. Right. That's, I guess, what the idea is. But I mean, Magnus would have walked in and tried to eat on a lot of stuff. Bishop g three, knight f five by Magnus. And now Magnus is completely winning if he plays Bishop g five and sacrifices the rook. Really? Like this. And what about bishop g one? Well, apparently bishop f five and then bishop h four. And apparently then knight g two. And you get out like king f one, knight f four. And black is completely winning. So Magnus has to coordinate his three pieces, sacrifice the rook. That's tough. That is tough to play. You trap your own rook and then this is apparently completely winning for black because white can't get off the back rank. All of White's pieces are stuck. The bishop is in the corner, he has no threats. Magnus is not stockfish, though. So he goes here. Now Kikaru is defending himself now. Magnus should have stayed patient and played a five and brought in the sniper from the edge of the board. A five. Very, very well timed move. If knight takes f five, there's bishop f five. There's a threat to the queen. And if white castles, there's bishop d three, which is picking up material. Not to mention rook d five is a free pawn anytime you want it. But instead of that, Magnus goes for knight, takes Hikara, plays f, takes rook d five. And now he castles. So Hikaru is just a clean pawn down. Clean pawn down after that. Absolutely goofy opening. Okay, the best plan for black queen e seven. Put the rook there slowly. Get the bishop out and get the rook out as well. Hikaro plays. Sorry. Magnus plays rook f five. He doesn't play rook c five, plays rook f five. Makes sense. He's up a pawn, so he wants to trade pieces. Plays rook f five. Now Hikaru doesn't take the rook. He wants his rook taken, and he wants it replaced with the rook. So he goes here with a little bit of pressure on Black's king. All right, Magnus is smart. He's up material. He trades. Here comes queen e seven. Now Hikaru's down upon. He's down on time, and he's got a pretty bad position overall. Basically, he's got to defend himself by playing only moves he does. He absolutely does. Plays rook f four. That is the only move. Why is that the only move? All you're doing is attacking a pawn. Why can't Black just play a five? He can. That's still the best move, though. The idea is to put the rook on e four and create counterplay onto Black's back rank. So you can do that with bishop d five. You can do that with queen d three, which the computer likes a little bit less. The computer likes Bishop d five. If Bishop e six, you pin. That's what you do. But that's the idea. Rook f four, queen d three. And you put the rook like this. Hikaru immediately spots that. He has to create counterplay on the e file. Now, Magnus can play d five. Magnus is like, bro, I'm two pawns up. I'm two pawns up. I'm straight up, up two pawns. I am completely winning. After playing a goofy opening like that, Hikaru plays the best move. Queen b five down 15 seconds on the clock. But looking to apply some pressure, maybe sneak into b seven. This pawn is actually proving to be more of an asset now in the long term, as it's two squares away from queening. And in most endgames, white can even sack to try to promote. All right, Magnus plays Bishop c three. Hikaru plays Bishop f four. It is now officially minus two. Black is up two pawns, and it's minus two. So the advantage is completely justified. How do you convert that? Apparently a four. You cannot take this with the bishop because d five and the rook is trapped. So since you can't do that, Bishop takes, pawn takes, and I'm not really sure what's going to happen here. I mean, queen b seven. Black can already begin things like b three. You just got to not hang your rook, obviously. But let's say you play like queen f eight, rookie. Six. There's b three. There's b three. There's a three. I mean, you are not stopping his pawn. And Hikaru does not have the firepower to fight back when a full queen lands on a one. So maybe that is the way to do it. But instead of that, Magnus doesn't play a four. He turns his attention to the center and all of a sudden Hikaru just takes the pawn on a five. What is going on? Hikaru takes the pawn a five. Magnus could just played a four. I mean, I'm sure it was complicated, but the pawn is falling. And now the only move here that the computer recommends is like queen d eight. Trying to start trading these pieces. Magnus plays h six, which makes sense. Carl plays a three. Oh, my goodness. He's going to get rid of these pawns. Now Hikaru's only one pawn down and we're going to an end game, which he's going to try to defend. Magnus plays queen d eight. He spends 40 seconds, 40 seconds realizing, wait a minute, I can't take because my bishop is going to hang and I can't take that because my queen is hanging. So what do I do? Plays queen d eight. He's down to 33 seconds. Clearly a bit rattled. Now Kikaro is going to take. And then he's going to take. So Magnus goes from playing a completely ridiculous opening then getting a completely winning position to messing it up slightly to Bishop. Takes e six. Rookie six. Rookie six. Rookie six. Excuse me, pawn e six ab. And now Hikaru is playing for the win against Magnus. From two pawns down to two pawns up. I don't know how these guys managed to do it, how they managed to create these completely insane games constantly. And now Magnus plays e five. And officially, officially, Hikaru is definitely playing for a win. These pawns are very annoying. So, for example, bishop g three. Let's just say here, here, white has pretty decent winning chances, not at this level. But like this is a very tough position for black. At the intermediate level. If the white king manages to get forward, there are constantly threats of breaking apart those pawns. It's a very tough endgame. So Bishop g three and Magnus loses. Magnus loses the game to Hikaru with the move king to h seven. Can you find the move that would beat Magnus Carlson in this position? Because I'll tell you right now, Hikaru didn't find it. Hikaru centralized his queen in this position and then immediately realized what he had missed. He played queen d five, threatening a fork and also threatening bishop before. Queen e four, check. Queen e four, check. Right. If bishop before, which would pick up the bishop. But Hikaru completely overlooked and he immediately spotted it. After playing queen d five. He has this and the bishop is trapped. The bishop cannot go anywhere except there where it will be forked. Now, queen a three is like, is like an 1800 level tactic. If you just put this position on the board and say white to move and win, we find this move and then queen g five. You just have to see this. So queen a three, queen g five. You just have to slide the bishop out of the way. Apparently this is winning too, this endgame because of the same reason I told you, because white can just sneak through. There might be queen b one. Check. Actually, after this, you might need to go queen c one first and then b six point stands, for example, queen e eight. B six like this and you're completely winning. So, yeah, queen a three. But instead of that queen here and now Magnus gets out of the way and you're not trapping this bishop anytime soon. If you try to come back, the bishop will be able to run away. For example, queen b three, bishop d two, this is no longer right. You try to trap the bishop. I can take with check, blah, blah, blah. So queen d five and Hikaru misses the chance and plays b five. And now Magnus plays queen b eight and is able to create a barrier, create a barrier on the dark squares. But the game is not over. The game is not over. White is still playing this for a win. E four. Magnus tries to create a blockade. Still, there is an outside chance that white could potentially break through. Magnus is trying to create a fortress. Hikaru takes on b six. Queen b six, king f one. Maybe the white king is going to go on a journey. For example, if the white king can successfully get to d seven like this, I understand, I'm like walking through a checkmate. But this, oh, this is winning because the king is so close, you'll just get in there and take the pawn. But as we saw, by the time you walk, you're going to get mated. So you can't just go on a walk. You've got to be very, very careful. Magnus plays queen e three. Both guys with limited time on the clock. Queen d three, check. Hikaru shucks upon completely to try to pick up c seven and then he's going to be completely winning. But it's very unfortunate because the king is stuck. The white king is actually just straight up stuck in a vortex. And even though c seven can fall, which Magnus is happy to give away, he saves the day with less than 10 seconds on his clock. With queen f four, check. And queen f one. And Hikaru can make a run for it. But then there's queen e three. And then he could make a run for it this way again. But then there's queen f four. Now, he probably should have tried is what he should have done. But you're never actually escaping. I can even take with check, but I'm not going to. So white is completely stuck. There is no way white can escape these. Check, check. And it's perpetual. And the players agree to a draw. I don't know how Hikaru and Magnus constantly manage to outdo each other every single week. Like the fact that Magnus can play this absolute nonsense. By the way, I'm going to start playing this. I'm going to play this idiotic opening and I'm going to see how I do. Just for fun. I'm going to try ten games of Magnus's goofy a six b five night c, you know, and I'm going to see how I fare in it. And then he gets a completely winning position, completely outmaneuvers. Right, look at this. Puts the knight promptly on the beat and just gets this roaring initiative, picks up a pawn. He has a two pawn advantage. He's just cleanly up two pawns. But Hikaru never stops defending. He never stops defending. He applies pressure and Magnus moves his rook out of the way and just hangs his apon. And then not only does he hang his pawn, he gets a completely losing position because of queen a three. Crazy. The Christmas drama is incredible, but winning and losing and ultimately drawing a game is life. And unfortunately, today there was no winner. There was no loser. On the bright side, though, tomorrow, like I said, world Rapid and blitz championships begin in Samarkand, in Uzbekistan. I don't know if I said that. I don't remember what I said 22 minutes ago in the intro of this video. The World Rapid and blitz championships begin. And that's exciting. So I will be covering those. If you're watching this at some point in the future, then, well, hope, hope you're having a wonderful day. All courses, 40% off for the holiday season. And that's all I have for you today. Merry Christmas, happy holidays. Get out of here.