Ladies and gentlemen, the World Rapid Chess Championships concluded today. And surprise, surprise, we had two things which are seemingly in every single bit of chess content nowadays, a little bit of drama, and Magnus Carlson winning yet another event, his 16th world chess championship. But the road there was absolutely nuts, with a lot of upsets, a of crazy victories, crazy emotions. And before we jump into today's recap, I'd like to thank the sponsor of today's video, Wudoku. Folks, how many times have you done this? We love chess, but it can be frustrating, you know, where you can't blunder your queen in Wudoku. Wudoku is a block puzzle game played and loved by millions. It's basically a mix of sudoku and Tetris. You need to clear rows and columns by sliding in these nifty little blocks. And the sound effects are super nice too. Just like in chess, you've got to think ahead for which pieces you might be given or you're going to run out of space and end up looking like me. 297 Wudoku is a nice, Zen like mental workout which you can enjoy in daily challenge, classical or journey mode. And here's a couple of crazy fun facts about Udoku that I never knew before. First of all, it's played in 185 countries around the world. That's like pretty close to chess. It also has been downloaded 250,000,000 times globally. That's also probably similar to chess. In fact, 15% of the United States alone has downloaded Wudoku. Now, frankly, I think chess should be at like 100%, but with your help, we'll get there and Wudoku is 100% free to play. Folks, you know how this works. To play Wudoku right now, all you got to do is click the link in the description. Now let's get back to the video. Thanks sponsored gotham my friends, here we go. The final recap of the world rapid. I will cover both events. The open, the women's. The women's had a wild, wild finish. So did the open. And it all starts and really features. It starts with Magnus Carlson and features three prominent names, Vladimir Fedesayev, formerly from Russia, now representing Slovenia, and vidit Gujarati of India. This all begins with the game fedesayev versus Magnus Carlson. Magnus going for a nimso and credit to fetiseev for actually allowing a nimso right rather than just playing knight f three and stopping Bishop to b before stuff. Now fetiseev plays it like this. This is a bit of a sideline Magnus takes, damaging the structure and compromising White's ability to put a pawn in the center, and then he plays d six. He plays rock solidly. Bit of a sideline here. Queen e seven. Not developing his pieces, not castling. And then takes the dark squares with this move. C five. Right. He gave up his dark squared bishop, so he replaces that real estate with the pawns like this. Fedev has a major decision to make. Is he going to advance in the center, or what is he going to do? If you take what you give yourself is really ugly pawn structure, double c pawns, not impressing anybody. So instead, he takes a little bit of center, and then he takes a little bit more space. Magnus continues to replace pawns on dark squares. He's very close to fulfilling the destiny of having no dark squared bishop but a rock solid formation. And as you can see now, he's able to start walking his king. That's a very provocative move. Naturally, you would think he wants to castle. And castling does look pretty natural. But maybe there's a world in which Fersev actually starts some sort of attack over here, while Magnus castles there. The computer is not impressed, but clearly Magnus moving his king is not an irl mouse. Slip. Right, so knight back to d two. Magnus walks his king to c seven. He's kind of provoking fedev to advance over here, which fedesayev is a little bit hesitant to do. And Magnus is still playing very, very cagey chess. The thing is, for Magnus to win the title, he's got to provoke his opponents a little bit. It's very difficult to win with black. Like, if white does nothing, if white just goes bing bong, bing, bong, bing. But, like, back and forth, especially in a position like this, where the position is very locked, and not just locked, white has a lot more space. Like, black is going to have to take the fight to white, which is not easy. So you kind of give the opponent a little bit, like you're waving the red flag in front of the charging bull. And, I mean, Ferrasev has six pawns advanced in the center like this, right? So at some point, he's going to come forward. Magnus shuts down the queenside. So now fetusev can't do anything over there. It would be nice for Vladimir to do this. 92 night b one like that is possible, but maybe there's nothing lethal about it. For example, if the knight goes to d two, maybe there is b six, maybe knight b one, bishop a six, knight a three. I don't know. We go here, and then this actually has no potency anymore, because the last thing that you want to do is block your own position, right? So I don't know what the idea there was, but ferrasev does this, and now Magnus doesn't lock the position at all. He takes. He wants to create something. He wants to create a little bit of something. It's still a very, very cagey position. The queen goes to b three. Now Magnus rotates the knight this way. Is he preparing f five? No way. He's not in the position to call the shots. He's moved his king a bunch. He has, like, no development whatsoever. Ferrisev also moves his king. And there comes f five. This man Magnus is playing for a win. Magnus is like, he's like a wrestler. He's like a brawler. But if you get him on his back, right, being on your back like this, generally not a really good. And a guy is pounding in your face. But pause. But seriously, when he's on his back, he could still submit you. He'd get you in a triangle choke. I don't know what this is. He'll get you in a triangle choke, right? He'll get an arm. He'll rotate the position like you think. Oh, all of Magnus's pieces are sort of stuck back here. No. He finds the only pawn break in the position. Now white has to deal with the imbalances, right? Fedev is still putting pressure on that beat, but Magnus is just defending. He's just defending. And what's going to happen now is Fedesayev is going to start spending time. But he's not. He's not. Fedesayev, if anything, is a guy that is very good on playing on instinct, but he's going backwards, right? He can't do much anymore. Most people here would just sit with white and go, oh, my God, what am I going to do? I can't make any more progress while that's fully accurate. And Fedev now starts trying to fight on the g file. Magnus says, no, I open the g file. The g file is mine. The queen goes to h seven to seize the diagonal. And now it's a waiting game. There might not be a chance yet for black to break through. The position is about equal, but we're going to wait. It's going to be a waiting game. Queen G. All right, now here comes the rook. All right, here comes the rook. Fedev trying to use his final pawn, f four. Magnus shuts the door, knowing that that pawn is going to be a menace in the end game, queen d seven. And now he's prying apart the defenses of the white position. Uhoh. Who's going to defend that pawn? I got news for you. That pawn was nice when it was in the attacking mechanism, but now black is completely guarding the position. Both players are now at around two minutes. Rook h three. Fedev is just restricted. Look at his pieces getting absolutely flattened in their ranks. Bishop c one. Queen B six. Excuse me? I said queen b six. Ha. Queen g three. B six would have been on the other side. Bishop C four. Magnus sacrifices material and just gets the bishop back. And the king is in dire straits. One of the most incredible things about this game is that this king crossed the center line. The king crossed the center line and got mated. Magnus beat Fersev. Which one of White's other pieces crossed the center? Seriously? Let's take a look at this. Seriously. So d five. I'm talking about pieces. Look at pieces. Not pawns. Not pawns. G four though. Those are all pawns. Those are pawns. Those are all pawns. Not a single. No way. This is crazy. Not a single. This can't be happening. Not a single piece. Not one of White's pieces. Not one of White's pieces crossed the center. How insane is that? Have you ever seen something like this? Magnus Carlson restricted his opponent's knights, bishops, queen, and rooks to this side of the board. He never crossed the center line. It's like a boxer too scared to punch. It's crazy. The only king that crossed the center, the only piece was the king. The king was the only one courageous enough, and he was courageously stupid because he got mated. He got mated on the other side of the board. And that is the way. And apparently Magnus was taken for a random fair play check after this game. I saw that video on chess base India. Everybody gets scanned. It's like, you know, when athletes get drug tested after good performances, they took Magnus for a fair play scan because they were, no way. No way. You just did that to one of the best rapid players in the world. Now, while this game was going on, we had other games, all right, we had other games going on. My man Vidit Gujarati yesterday suffering a tough defeat against Magnus, but he has been absolutely ridiculous this year. First of all, he's opposite side castling, and this man is actually adapting his playing style a little bit. Vidit's gotten a lot more aggressive, which is actually the reverse. As a person. He's gotten much more zen. He's doing a lot of meditating. He's always like, posting about his meditations and stuff. I should really try meditation. But he's actually gotten quite aggressive and as you can see here, he's got bad intentions for Korobov. Now, let me tell you, Anton Korobov from Ukraine, one of the most creative players, very, very strong. Perennial 2700, as rapid as 2600 because rapid ratings aren't real. But rookie eight, night b three. And I mean, as you can see, he's got very bad intentions for one of the most creative players in the world. If one guy has an attack here on the other, it is clearly vivid attacking Korobov and Korobov trying to defend himself. Now, of course, the computer says it's equal because the computer is a piece of garbage and kills all imagination and tells children that. I was going to say certain things aren't real, but you know what? If I have, like, five year olds watching this, they're real. Everything's real. It's all real. It's all real until a certain age, at which point you will be institutionalized. Rookie seven, rook b three. Look at this attack. He has 2022 pieces of material bulldozing down his opponent's side of the board. And it's not even about taking the pawns, it's about restricting pawns control. Knight a six is a massive threat. So the king goes to a eight. Now rook a three is mate. He's not going to blunder it. G three, waiting move. And at some point, maybe Viddid is going to maneuver. Korobov's not having. He's not having it. He's trying to create counterplay. Now vidded, goes around the other way. 94. Still looking for mate, still poking, still prize. Nothing here. There's nothing here. The only way something's going to happen is if somebody blunders something. Rook c eight. Oh, that's an annoying move. Look at queen b six. Wow, that is annoying. Now it's still equal. If black just does nothing, black can play f five. Maybe. Obviously, white wants to do all of it. And then here, Karabov plays a six. He loses the game on the spot. Karabov thought a six prevents b five. He's not wrong. And now he's going to try to play queen a seven. But he forgot about the sacrifice of the rook. Rook a six. It's the most obvious move, too. Like you would think it's the most obvious. Rookie six. And the idea is that black is stuck. He's going to lose his rook and then he's going to lose all his pawns. Literally. He's going to lose all his pawns. I mean, you could probably just trade as well and win this endgame, but, oh, my God. A present. Vidit's aggression pays off, and he beats Korba. Vidit is now in the hunt. He is in the hunt for the gold medal as well. At the very least, the silver medal. Crazy stuff is going on now, the next round featured, and by the way, everybody's making draws like every other player in the event, except these guys, is like making a draw. They're all chasing. But then you got Magnus, who comes back from the random drug test, and he's playing iranian grandmaster Puya Dani, who I think is a young guy, maybe in his 20s, unless I'm completely wrong, but I'm pretty sure he is. Bishop C four. Magnus has been playing this beginner's Sicilian, like we tell beginners not to play. You guys have all done this. You've all done this. A lot of you, you learn an opening, right? You learn the Vienna, and then you go, this is the Vienna. And I'm going to play the Vienna against everything. I teach you how to hammer a nail. So you try to hammer everything, okay? Screws, bolts, like, everything you say. Well, this is the Vienna. No. So you learn the Italian and you think, oh, I'm playing the Italian. What? This is the Italian, right? E four. Boom, boom, boom. No. Italian is against e five. But it turns out, it basically turns out in 2023, you can do whatever you want at any point in chess, and it's fine. Worst comes to worst, it's equal. And it doesn't really matter because equality is good. It's a good thing in society and economics. Not like rampant, not like, not communism historically, but this is not a socioeconomic channel anyway. Castles, c three. Knight C. So what you get when you play chess like this is a game. You get a game. The computer is, like, equal, doesn't matter. The meta in chess used to be, you try to get an advantage. The meta now is you just get a position where you are probably going to be more comfortable in your opponent. And let me tell you right now, you take any chess player on the planet earth, sometimes you can even pair them together and they can't beat Magnus Carlson. All right. B six. Knight Bd two. Knight to b three. Bishop B seven. Bishop G five. That just gave me a really good idea for a series. What if I did like Magnus and a tag team of grandmasters? You think Magnus could beat two of the top ten players in the world at the same time? Do you think they would be willing to do that? Is that like, a huge ego thing? Like, what if I took two top ten players and they were on a team them, and they were playing Magnus? I think that would be fascinating. You could beat them at the same time. Knight e seven. Queen e two. I don't think they would do it. I think it would be too much of an ego hit. Knight f four. Big maneuvering game 95. Magnus seizing control. Still applying a lot of pressure here. 97 is an idea, but black is fine. Black is fine. Magnus trades the queens. Trades the queens. We're going to a. This is a very early stage endgame. It's still. I would call this a queenless middle game, but Magnus's pieces look very nice, and he has what the kids call a rizzler of a pawn majority over here. Bishop to d five. Nobody really knows what Rizzler means. This is just a thing that children say. Bishop e five. Rookie five. And still Magnus has a majority. So this is probably going to come in handy. All right, there it is. Rookie three. Defending his majority. Maybe he's going to make a couple of trade. What the heck just happened? Whoa, whoa, whoa. Well, it turns out defending that pawn is really difficult, because if you play a move like rook b seven, I play f three. Your night moves, and I fork you. So instead of that, Puya runs in and grabs this. But Magnus is like, bro, I am the best endgame player of all time, and I am a pawn up, and I have two pass pawns. Do you think my man. Okay, I'm only a pawn up now, but it's a really good pawn. Do you think I will not be able to beat you? I told you a long time ago that knight is super annoying. And Magnus does not rush, walks his king forward, doesn't even take, yo, this is really, really high level stuff. This is really high level stuff. Magnus has a free pawn, 100% certified free pawn, but it's better for him to run the king to help the pawn. That is easy for Magnus to spot that this is the right way to play, to give up all of this and just go invest in the pawn. But that is brilliant for the average chess fan. B six. Time is of the essence. You have to go defend yourself. King C six. And now there's no point trying to sneak in because I go, B seven. There's no point trying to sneak in because I block you. That's the point. And I. Queen would check. That is the idea here. So takes. Takes King E seven. And that's it. The pawn made it because the king was too fast and Magnus Carlson seals the door, seals the deal. And the most important thing here is there is a universe in which if you don't know how to win a rook versus king and pawn endgame, you draw it because the king runs up and you make a mistake. Not here. King is just way too close. Magnus keeps winning. Now this is the game to determine who is going to play Magnus, who's going to contend versus Magnus for the gold medal. The winner of this game will probably get gold or silver again. We kind of ruined it, but it is what it is. D vidit versus fedev. The matchup we've been dreaming of. It starts with a semislav, starts with just a regular main line. Takes, takes Bishop D six. Critical line. Black striking back in the center. Black actually never played the move b five, which is very, very provocative. So instead, we have a massive exchange. Queen d eight. Vidit grabs a pawn. Fersev grabs it back. But Vidit enjoys an advantage because of Black's awkward king, because of the two bishops. The bishops love space. Now, you cannot take this pawn. You take this pawn. I'm going to play Bishop G five. I'm going to force your king out here. And Black is just too slow. Black is going to get probably mated, but rookie, one bishop back and now he takes it. Bishop B two. And we take on g seven. This is the position that we have to work with. Vidit has the bishop pair and he has three on one. Traditional logic tells you that Vidit is much better and the computer does agree. The computer thinks that Vidit definitely enjoys a very pleasant advantage. All signs are pointing to vidit grinding down his opponent in this game. Black plays a five. Viddit says no. Fedea plays Bishop g eight. Vidit brings his king just like Magnus brings his king. You can't take because of this. So how is Fedev going to defend this position? Both guys have five minutes. Tens of thousands of dollars are on the line. An international gold medal is on the line. What now? Rook to e seven. We bring the bishop back. Very nice idea to put some pressure on this pawn. Fedev defends it. Now we attack that pawn. So much is at stake right now. Every piece is interacting with every other piece. The rook goes to b eight. Now Vidit says, what's a better time to push my pawn majority than right now? So does Fedev. Here's the problem. You can't take with the pawn. You cannot take with the pawn because you relinquish defense of the knight and the rook. And the bishop you would lose. So he has to take with the rook. Now his pawns are split. Now bishop a four. Ferrasev goes for this and tries to get creative. But his advantage is ballooning. The advantage is ballooning for Vidit who now has a 1 minute time advantage. Where is this knight going to go? I got news for you. Nowhere. It can't move because discovered check Rook c four, Bishop B one. The game is over. Knight back to e seven, Vidit Bishop B six has a completely winning position. If he wins this game, he is tied with Magnus for the gold medal spot. He lost to Magnus. But if they tie for first, they will play a playoff. They will play a blitz playoff to determine the champion of the open rapid championship. This is unbelievable stuff. Vidit is getting it done. He is a pawn up now. Apparently not even the best move. Apparently Bishop d three and bishop a six is even more ridiculous because he just wins like it's just mate. Rook goes there. So Bishop d three was a little bit better. But he grabs a pawn, who can blame him? Rook to a four. Now rook d eight. He plays it. He could play rookie. Okay, he could play rook d seven. Bishop C three. Also not so bad. But now Ferrasev starts consolidating his king crawls back into the ditch, grabs the horse, says, I got you. The bishop goes to a two. Ferseev. This is a sniper of a move. And now Viddid also low on time. Knight to g six. Insane game. Vidded upon up e five. He advances. The king goes to mess with the rook again. Where's the rook going to go? It goes back. The bishop goes to d five. The bishop goes to f five. The knight jumps out to h four. Oh my God, the stress. 20 seconds on the clock. Fetuse using his final pawn to pry the defenses away from the bishop e six. Viddit making a break for it. Bishop E five is checkmate, by the way. It's straight up going to lead to a checkmate somehow. But rook a three, pinning the bishop. Oh my goodness. The king gets out of the way. Here comes the knight. The king has to guard the bishop. Pawn takes g four and Vidit sneaks the pawn forward. The only defensive move now is Bishop f seven. This pawn is hanging. And the knight is hanging after that. So Vidit takes. But it's a losing mistake. It took Vidit 47 moves to make one major error. And now there's a check. And in the most cruel way possible, the white position falls apart. The king can now. No longer defend the bishop. And when the bishop falls, the knight is protected and the promotion is still stopped. Vidit Gujarathi all of a sudden is completely losing rook g three. He's trying to push his pawn but there's nothing he can do. And apparently we still get back to an equal position. We still get back to an equal position. King g three. It was so many plots. Twist. King g three. Rook h one. It's now back to maybe equal king h four. Vidit makes a run for it. But that's it. That's it. His king has been sniped. Rook g four. He tries to defend himself. But knight f five. The second piece is lost. The pawns are stopped. And Vidit Gujarati sat there with his head in his hands. And that's chess. That's chess for anybody not named Magnus Carlson. It has been a decade of fighting for the gold and silver. Maybe. Maybe. I'm sorry, the bronze and the silver. But if Vidit had won this game he would have been tied with Magnus going into the final game. But instead it is Fede Seyev who is half a point behind. We will take a look at those two matchups because there was absolutely insane stuff going on in the women's section. So this is the drama of the day. The last round begins in the women's rapid championship. Lei Tingdie from China and Anastasia Bodnaruk from Russia are tied for first. This is the full game. Lei Tingdie offers her opponent a draw on the third move which by the way shouldn't be allowed. Like I don't even. At least move 20. Right? And even then she offers a draw. And they tie for first. They tie for first. One person can catch them. That is indian grandmaster and legend Humpy Konaru. She can catch them in a three way tie for first. She does catch them in a three way tie for first. Which means the three of them get gold, silver and bronze. But they have to play for it. Except that is not true. What? Well, here are the rules in the open section. If there is a time for first a playoff shall determine the champion. If more than two players are tied, look at b one. A knockout tournament will be played. But on the women's section, for whatever reason the playoffs say the top two players by tie breaks. What? Why do they have different rules now? Of course it's the player's responsibility. I'm not saying it. But the players should know that. And they probably shouldn't make draws in three moves. But why are the rules different? Because this happened a couple of years ago in the open section when some of the men tied. And then they couldn't play for a playoff because only the top two. So they changed the rule, but they kept it in the women's. Now, who knows? I don't know. Was this agreed upon? Did all the top women in the world, like, say yes to this? I don't know. Does Fide talk to the top players to determine the rules? I don't know. But Lei Tingie does not get to play in the playoff despite tying for first. The playoff is humpy Conroe versus Anastasia Bodnaruk. I think Leiting die will be kicking herself for this decision. I don't know. I don't know for how long. I haven't spoken to her. Maybe she won't. Maybe she doesn't care. But she gets bronze. And this is the gold medal match because they were top two on tiebreaks. Some of you might be wondering, how is that even determined? It's a couple of different things. It's like the sum of your opponent scores, which means you played really good players. The average rating of your opponents, which means you played really good play. Like, there's a couple of things. This is their fourth tiebreak game because the first two, they traded blows. They each won. This is their last tiebreak game. And it was absolutely ridiculous. It started with a neo ready. That's what it was. It was like a ready system. White came back from a trade of queens. By the way, they play blitz to determine the champion of rapid because there's no other way to do it. I mean, they don't have all day. They can't play more. I don't know. Breaking ties in chess is not easy. It really isn't. All right, they got to do it some way. They might as well do blitz. So the game is a very balanced game. It's completely symmetrical until the 20th move when black gets her knight trapped on the edge of the board. The rook is hanging. The getaway square is stopped. Rook c five, only move, the knight is trapped. The only way not to have the knight trapped is to move the bishop to target the knight. There's also b five, I guess, which targets the bishop. Danger levels. You danger level the knight and then you move the knight to f four. But what you don't do is this. You said danger levels, but now you have two hanging pieces. Humpy Connor is completely winning. She grabs a knight. Now, it's not, like, hopeless because black is going to get a couple of pawns here. But f four takes, takes king f two. I mean, it looks like white should be completely winning, but it's actually a little bit tricky. It is surprisingly tricky because of how powerful the bishop is and how powerful the Rook is targeting the king. And all of a sudden, within a span of a few moves, Black has a couple of pawns and it's anything but clear. And Humpy has 7 seconds. She plays king e two. She's trying to trade the rooks, but Black is staying active. Black is zipping in. White is up material, but it's very difficult to prove. Rook d three. Trying to trade rook d two. Rook c one. A five. Okay, she's making progress now. Her king's going for a run. Rook h three. The king is going for a run. The evaluation is building. Rookie one. King c five. Rook c one. And now Humpy had to go here, she had to go there, pause, and do the damage with her knight. Instead, she runs in with her king and loses her pawn. Disaster. The bishop is pinned. She can't take on b seven. So what is she going to do? She goes Rook d four. She gets pinned and she loses on time. She had two second bonus, but she froze up here. She didn't know what to do. She couldn't take. She didn't really want to do this because if you take, you're under severe pressure. So Bishop d five. And she froze with 4 seconds on the clock and she didn't make her move in time. And she is the silver medalist. And Anastasia Bodhenuk is the first international master to ever win the women's world rapid championship. She might be the first Im to win any rapid period, by the way, which is crazy open or women's? And Leising Jia gets bronze after a three move draw. That is so wild. Why are the rules different? Why are the rules different? Can somebody explain that to me? Nobody is able to explain that to me. I don't get it. Why do they have different rules? Anyway? Here we go. If Vladimir fetasev defeats Dmitri and Draken, he might time Magnus Carlson. If Magnus Carlson wins against Pragnanda, he wins. There is no debate. Well, I got news for you. It was a short round. It was a short round. I think again, if Fedev plays for a win, he might lose. So what does he do? It's a queen's gambit accepted. And on the 9th move of the game, he offers a draw. That's what he does. So Fedev gets nine and a half points. A bunch of players have eight and a half. They could try to catch Ferasev says, you know what? I'm good with a draw, which is, I don't know why they do this, but maybe they're smarter than me, which means nobody can catch Magnus. So around this point, Magnus plays the four knights against Prague. Under traditional circumstances, this is a game that, like, prague, would be playing for a win. But there's no point in getting aggressive because Magnus doesn't even want to play for a win. And this is the position. After ten moves, Magnus looks over at the other game and goes, oh, they made a draw. So I just have to not lose. And that's what he does. He plays in a way where he just doesn't lose. He trades pieces. And this is the position. After 23 moves, Bishop C seven is a dead draw. Slightly uneventful conclusion, but that's what happens when you absolutely murder the opposition for the first twelve rounds. Magnus Carlson just won his 16th world championship, five in classical, five in rapid, and he has six in blitz, and he's going to try to win a 7th, this one particularly impressive. Magnus has now won the world rapid championship three out of the last four years. He got bronze in 2021 because I think of that rule, because of that rule, because it used to be the top two and they changed it and they just never changed it for the. I don't know. I don't know how they do anything. I don't know how they make any of their decisions. What I do know is Magnus won, and he didn't just win. Magnus had no bad positions in 13 rounds. And if that forecasts anything for the world blitz championship, which begins tomorrow, I think his opposition is pretty fudged. Fudged. They're fudged, as the kids say. That's all I have for you today. Congratulations to all of the medalists. Congratulations to Magnus Carlson, Vladimir Fetisev and Yu Yangi. Now, you may wonder why I haven't covered Yu Yangi's games. He drew all four games on the last day. There was a lot of draws, but Yu Yangi. Oh, let me actually show you real quick. The standings for the open were crazy. Look how many people tied for third. Yu Yangi, Vidit Voladarmurzian, a young man from Russia. Very good, defeated Nepo. He defeated Levon Aronian, Maxim Duboff, Prague, Dimitrian Drake and Nodzerbeck. It was like a twelve way tie for third, but Yu Yang Yi emerged with the best tiebreaks. So congratulations to him. And on the women's side, obviously, it was Budneruk, Anastasia Budnaruk winning the gold. Medal. Humpy Conroe. A heartbreaking defeat for silver. And Latinxia gets bronze. But, I mean, if she's. She must. She must be kicking herself. I can't even imagine. World blitz starts tomorrow. That's all I have for you today, I think. Get out here.