You. Ladies and gentlemen, it's currently January 2024, and over the last couple of months in the chess world, we've been hit with the cheating scandal 2.0, and the protagonists in this one are none other than grandmaster and former world champion Vladimir Kramnick and Hikaru Nakamura. Kramnick has been on a bit of an anti cheating crusade. Now, whether it's been fruitful or not is is up to interpretation. But definitely most recently, he pointed all the fingers and all the spotlight at the streaks of one Hikaruna Kumura on chez.com. Recently, chez.com muted his blog due to various statements that he then went on to make against young prodigies and some of the younger folks that he thinks might not be playing fair. So it's been a whole thing. Now, while this has been going on, I've been very curious to see will Magnus ever play Kramnik? Will Hikaru ever play Kramnik? Now Kramnick has quit playing on chess.com multiple times. The earliest was in September when he posted I've decided to stop playing on chess.com from tomorrow on. This was four months ago. Too many obvious cheaters. Nothing is done to clean the platform from small crooks. Harsh words, but true. Hope I will come back one day when it's been cleaned up, et cetera, et cetera. The strength is in truth. Peace out. But then he came back and he played a few times. And yesterday he tweeted this. Such a lineup. Timur even okay will play for a change as well. Hikaru Leon Beast Lachesis Q that's Nipomnichi Paravyan Dennis Lazovic Wesley so Jose Eduardo Martinez El Cantaran Ifabiano Carwana Eduardo Iturizaga Jan Krishtov Duda lot of really good players and he decided to play now. Then he played Magnus. But this is how it ended. Vladimir Kramnick made a Twitter recently to continue to post things. At some point he responded to somebody I saw this yesterday. He said that he wanted to join me for a video, but I'm not allowed. That's what he said. He said I'm not allowed. I don't know who's allowing me, maybe God. I've already stated here publicly that while it would be an interesting conversation with Vladimir, I don't think we're going to get anywhere. I think we're just going to talk in circles. I don't think we're going to get to the bottom of any issue. I think he has his opinions, and yesterday he said, I already forgot how disquatong disgusting it is to play cheating Tuesdays. We'll play remaining games and no more. Thank you. All right. Amazing. Now, Magnus yesterday played entitled Tuesday, and it was a hoot. It was a hoot. And he actually got a game against Vladimir Kramnik, which was sensational. But before I show you that game, which I will show you, anytime you go to a nice restaurant, you do start off with a nice appetizer. And I just. Look, my friends, I had to show you one more game. You get two games of Magnus. You click for one game, you get two games. It's actually completely ridiculous. Or the way we would say, in the words of Mr. Kramnick, it's very, very interesting the way Magnus can get a rating of 3370 and play stuff like this. I mean, he plays games where he plays h three and then g four. It's unbelievable. He just literally plays garbage openings, gives his opponents much better positions, sometimes completely winning positions. And then he wins. And then he wins the games. I mean, I've never seen anything like it before. So this game against Sergey Galco, very stronger and master, he opened with h four, and then he played a scandinavian defense, you may ask. What am I talking about? Well, the scandinavian defense is when Black brings the queen out and then rotates the queen to the a file. Well, Magnus basically does the exact same thing, except he's basically got a pawn here, which I imagine is not doing his position any favors, although he can put his bishop on g five, and he could expand if his opponent does, in fact, castle that way. And it seems like I can't make moves on this board because black's clock reset. Okay, tremendous. Queen takes. D four. All right. Knight c six. Queen a four. Love. When chesla.com does that, just puts the clock on zero. Knight f six. Magnus plays Knight f three and just plays normally. Just basically plays like he hasn't actually put upon an h four. He's playing a reverse scandinavian defense. E three. Knight c three. And clearly he wants to castle. If Black were to take on f four, Magnus would play queen takes, and then he would castle play bishop here and launch an attack at his opponent's king. So now Shugako tries to pin his knight. Magnus counterattacks with the same bishop move and takes the damage to his pawn structure over here while also having light squared weaknesses and a random pawn on the h four square. Okay. A six takes. Excuse me, not takes. Takes. If takes, there would have been bishop takes, and then he would have had to move the queen. So he comes here. He's not worried about discovered attacks. And that's the thing. When you play against Magnus, he does these ridiculous things against you, but there's no knight jump that helps. Knight here is a discovered attack on the queen. But the queen's just going to move. Knight can't actually do any damage. So Shagako is doing a nice thing here with his pieces. If queen takes, there is a nice combination. Knight takes followed by taking here. If queen takes, the knight takes queen here, knight takes here. There's bishop b five defended. X raying and skewering the queen to the rook. That's not very nice. Now, Chicago does get a pretty good game here, but he's down 2 minutes. This is the other thing about playing Magnus. He plays really quickly, all right. And he knows when his opponents are nervous. Right now, Magnus's queen has to dance out of the way. He ends up king because his opponent only has 30 seconds on the clock. And then he does this. He's targeting a pawn. He has some good pressure here, but at the end of the, he's just going to lose the pawn on h four, that stupid pawn that he put there on the first move of the game. Well, then it sneaks out of the way. And now he actually could have a potential thing knocking on the door here. Now, in some completely absurd turn of events, that pawn ends up helping Magnus very, very nicely, which is kind of nuts because it looks like he's just getting destroyed on the queenside, right? Looks like black can simply play b takes. For some reason, he doesn't. Plays h six. Now, Magnus does this and zips in with his queen. Now, if black trades the queens here, he probably can't lose, but he's Magnus. So for some reason, Magnus makes him panic, and instead he goes for this. Now, if the queens are kept on the board, it's probably going to be matt. And look how quickly Magnus can turn on the pressure. And by the way, the queen can't go to g six. Playing defense because of this idiot pawn that he put there. Magnus plays rook c one. And now it goes from black. Better to equal to queen g four to black bishop f six. On the verge of defeat, plays rook c seven. Rook c three. What do you do? You can't take. This is mate. You can't play rook f six because of rook c seven. The only move here is bishop c four. Gigako, 5 seconds on the clock, panics, takes the bishop, loses the rook. It's much worse than that because he's actually getting mated. He goes here. But white's king is safe, and Magnus wins. I mean, the ease at which he does this is just hilarious. I don't even know now. This was his game against Vladimir Kramnick, and he trolled him. He trolled Mr. Kramnick. I just realized the dimensions of the border, slightly off the crop, is a little bit weird in today's video. Hold on a second. That's a little bit strange. Why is it like that? Needs to come up a little bit. Think. There we go. That was weird. Sorry. Just realized his profile photo was cut off. Or maybe that's just the profile photo. Maybe that's just what it looks like. Okay. Anyway, his profile photo tripped me out. All right, whatever. That was Kramnick trolling me. So Vladimir is playing in title Tuesday, plays e four, but he spends a minute and 20 seconds on this move because he probably didn't know it was his move. That probably also didn't make him very happy. Magnus goes here. H six. This is called the car defense. You also notice Magnus Chad behavior. Former world champion, goes to 139 on move one. Magnus also spending a minute and 20 seconds to even out the clock. That is what we call good sportsmanship. You know what we call bad sportsmanship? Playing e six and ac. Oh, my goodness. This is one of the most accomplished chess players who has ever lived, Mr. Kramnick. And Magnus is doing this. It's unbelievable. He's like the kid in the back of the classroom that secretly a genius. He's just bored in class. That's why he's misbehaving. Now. Shockingly, this is, like, equal. So I might just have to play the Magnus opening. Now, black is going to try to use the pawns as a springboard. It's better to use the queenside as a springboard because the king might still want to castle short, which is why he plays b five. All right, that pawn could be used for b four at some point in the future. White generally does not want to commit a pawn move here, because first of all, it doesn't even stop b four. The bishop will come in. Second of all, it's a little bit of a waste of time because the knight can always wrap around. So very common move here is bishop d three to meet b four with knight here, which would no longer block the bishop, and the bishop would be defending the center pawn. We can actually watch this from Magnus's perspective, okay. Because then he plays c five. He's still not developing any pieces. If you're watching this at home, and you're young. Don't play chess like this. All right? You got to put pawns in the center. Knights, bishops. And you say, well, levy, Gotham does it. Not Gotham. Magnus does it. Why can't I do it if Magnus does it? Because he's kind of better than know. Not by a lot, but by enough. So you shouldn't really do what he does now takes bishop. Takes. So now Magnus has gotten rid of one of Kramnik's central pawns, and he's actually got two of his own left. So if you count the central imbalance, black is actually very happy. And now he develops his bishop. So he's got nice pressure. The best move here, unquestionably, in my opinion, is e five. E five for white controls Black's natural development, and it takes away dark square control. I really like this move, e five. I'm not going to put it on the board because I think it's going to break the board and it's going to make the clock go back to being zeros, which is really annoying. White plays a four here, right? So Kramnick is trying to say, I think your pawn is stupid. A four. Could he have considered e five and maybe bishop f four developing? Yes, but he plays a four, claiming he's not afraid of b four. So Magnus plays b four and says, all right, if you're not afraid of b four, let's go. And now Magnus develops his knight to f six, virtually begging for e five to be played. Begging for this move, saying, you got to play this move, Vlad, and then I'm going to jump in, I'm going to win. The pawn gets here, I'm going to trade it, or I'm going to target it. Right? But Magnus has this tendency to freeze opponents a little bit, and they don't play e five, and instead they play knight g three, which is fine. Vladimir rotates his knight to g three. Very powerful knights control four squares of action. Black can castle. Black can play d five. Black can also play more passively with d six. He does play d six. He doesn't castle yet he doesn't castle, which is very interesting. Very, very interesting. I don't know why he's not castling like you ask me. The most natural move is castles. But clearly, maybe he doesn't like e five. Maybe he doesn't like white's attacking possibilities. Maybe he doesn't like e five. And then something will get to the e four square. It'll pressure that diagonal pressure. I don't know, but he plays d six. Kragnick plays queen e two. Now, the best move has to be castles, right? Has to be. According to the computer, it is. No. Magnus plays 97. He's not even thinking. Every move is coming in 1 second. Now, it's a little late to play e five. Now, if you play e five, black actually has enough on that square that he can play. Bishop takes knight. Not that one, but that one. And that hits the queen and actually removes the defender of the e five pawn completely. So black would be very happy. Now, e five is off the table. If e five is off the table, you can't activate the knight and the bishop. White should now play a five, which Kramnick does. Nice positional move. Rook defends the pawn, disconnects black from ever joining the pawns together and prevents anything from going to b six. It's a nice idea, but it could be a long term liability. Magnus again doesn't Castle every move that he's made. Look at Magnus's time from the very beginning of the game. 140. Every move is around. He's not even thinking. Every move Magnus is making is coming in 1 second. Finally, he spends 6 seconds and he makes a big decision. Everything is solid. White's got a major pawn break, which could work or could or could not work. Black can, of course, Castle play a long term game. No. Magnus here attacks Kramnick with his h pawn. Wow. Attacks Kramnick with his h pawn. That is very interesting. Now the major question is, will white play h four? It's a major decision to make. Kramnick spends 20 seconds and opts not to do this by showing Kramnick he wants to attack him and getting Kramnick to play and commit a pawn two squares. Magnus will win the g four square from the g four square. He will not be easily booted and he will apply steady pressure to the white position. Also, after h four, every time a pawn moves, something gets stronger, something gets weaker. The pawn stops guarding the knight. That pawn is actually not guarding the knight because it's pinned. So a move like d five would open up a queen takes knight situation. Very interesting stuff, right? Because you can't take the right, can't take. Kramnick decides to play Bishop g five. Computer doesn't like that move. Doesn't like it a whole lot, but it's okay with it. Now Magnus openly says, go ahead and take my knight. Take my knight, because then I'm going to get this brick wall in front of my king and I'm going to put my king right there. That is so great. That's such a deep idea. Hiding the king in the center behind the wall of pawns, knowing his opponent can't get in as well, and creating a Tetris piece of pawns over here. A two and one like that. All right, now, knight takes. Pawn takes. Magnus has not spent any time. He started this game with 140. I mean, he's barely spent any time. He's averaging about one to 2 seconds every single move. Now, it's actually okay to play h four. It's okay to play this move, but it's still a very big decision, because obviously black will get this in the future. Now Vladimir says, wait a minute, I can take the knight and I can take the pawn. And he does. Magnus straight up loses a pawn. Not only does he lose a pawn, he might lose another one. With check. He plays king e seven, and Magnus uses this completely ridiculous opening that he played to reverse course in the game. Did Kramnick have to take on f six? Probably not, but Magnus has a very solid center. He's still constantly eyeing for this. Knight h seven could happen as well. Queen c six defends everything and pressures the center. And this brick wall just basically prevents white from getting any attack ever. White has no access to the black position at all. But king e seven, what a position. Look at this. He has a Tetris piece of pawns protecting his king. Queen f three. Queen f six is scary, but black can just go here. The rooks are coming. Now, the only thing preventing black from getting a totally devastating attack is the fact that the center is blocked, and it will be blocked for a while. Black cannot play the move f five because white will take ruining the king. So Kramnick just goes back to g three, and now rook h four, which is the best move? It is the top engine move. Now, if I'm playing black here, I'm going here because I want to put my rook there right away. No. Magnus puts the rook on the best possible square, simultaneously controlling f four. Something got in my throat. Oh, my goodness. Breathe in. Feel like I breathe in like fuzz. Or maybe I'm just allergic to Magnus's openings. Rook h four controls anything. Going to the fourth rank, pressures the pawn, prevents queen g four, and sets up a doubling. But the best part, once you get white to make one pawn move, one pawn move, you've created a sufficient weakness, and that's the knight. And now you switch your plan. Rook g eight, hitting the knight. All of this is being hit. And now, after king h two, Magnus follows up with the best move. I told you a little while ago, you can't open up the position that easily here. Not possible. Can't play f five because white controls it really, really well. So instead of f five, Magnus plays f five. What? Yeah, leaving that pawn. And if pawn takes, he's got devastating intentions with e four. That is another reason why the rook needed to come play defense. You say what? E four. E four is defended one, two, and three times. No, because when this pawn goes up, the queen's door is opened, and the queen actually pins the knight to the king, which means the knight has no role in the game. It's paralyzed. So Bishop takes a six. Kramnick. Bold, very bold move. Grabbing a second pawn and basically saying, magnus, I don't believe you. I don't believe you. Have an attack. Well, now Magnus plays bishop, takes e four. A very critical decision. And White's position is falling apart because black is going to come back and snipe from a distance. Now we see the power of the bishop pair. The bishops are snipers. The rooks are snipers. F four is knocking on the door. The knight has got to pay up. The knight takes. Now we bring in the rook. We see the entire justification of this. It's actually beautiful, the symphony that Magnus conducts with his pieces. The queen comes out to h five, simultaneously putting pressure on the black position, but also covering key squares. Magnus plays rook d four. All right, trying to slide his epawn forward. The top computer move here was actually Rook f four with the idea if pawn to g three, e four, sacrificing the rook for a checkmating attack. Magnus didn't spot that. Plays Rook d four instead. Now Kremnick gets his king out of the way. But unfortunately, this is game over. That's just an attack on the bishop and a checkmate, and there is absolutely nothing to be done. White's pieces are totally stuck. There is no way they can create counterplay. The queen goes back, he takes the bishop c three. And now we'll see how he converts the game bishop before he allows a check. And now his king goes to hideout with the pawns again. What a safety net for the king. A beautiful safety net. Queen b six. Magnus says, all right, you know what you want a queen trade. No problem. Rook b eight. Rook a six. Rook d six. And Kramnick lost on time here. He only had 1 second. But of course, rook b six is coming. And then you win the end game by planting the bishop firmly, winning the b pawn, winning the f pawn, and marching creating a pass pawn, making a queen. Magnus opens with the card offense. H six e six. A six b five. I might give this a little bit of a shot as well. I always like to see how he beats some of the best players in the world. Also opens up with h four. Magnus tied for first in title Tuesday with nine and a half points out of eleven despite not playing a game because there were server problems. So he lost a full round. He did not get paired. He got a zero and he scored nine and a half out of ten in the games that he did play and he tied for first with nine and a half points. Very curious to see what's going to happen next. I mean, I can't imagine Vladimir takes too kindly to trolling nonsense openings, but I'm not really sure. The bigger storyline, of course, is Kramnik saying these are cheating Tuesdays and he's not going to play in them anymore. This might be the third or fourth time he has promised not to come back to play on just the Khan. He always does. He plays against Prague. He's played against Fabiano Carawana recently. He plays against strong players who I believe he respects and believes are legitimate. Oh, and one more thing. I think Magnus, to get to 33 70, has won 60. He has like 65 out of 70 points. Like, Magnus has played 70 games on chess.com and he's got a streak over 60. I think he hasn't lost a game in 45 or 50 games. I checked this yesterday. It's like completely absurd. He has like 45 wins and five draws. So in the words of a chess legend, some of you may find this very interesting. Of course, that is said tongue in cheek. And yeah, let's hope Magnus gets the 3400 blitz. It's the month of Magnus Carlson at the moment on chelsea.com. They have all these bots. I will be playing the Magni bots pretty soon. I'm going to try to get them to play against stockfish as well. That's all. That's all. Get out of here.