It. Ladies and gentlemen, today I've got something very special for you that I hope you will appreciate as much as I do. As a chess fan, I used to make many videos like this in 2020, 2021, the early days of the chess boom. And since then, I kind of got away from it because truly, the historical chess deep dives just don't do as great for whatever reason. But hopefully this one does. And let me know in the comments if you want more content like this. Today the spotlight is on perhaps the greatest genius to ever play the game of chess. And of course, I am talking about the magician of Riga, Latvia, Mikhail Tal. Mikhail Tal was born in 1936 in, as I just mentioned, Riga. And he was one of the most influential chess players of the entire 20th century. He won the world championship against the perennial best player at the time, Mikhail Butvinik. And Tal was an absolutely fascinating individual. He lived a bohemian lifestyle. He drank, he smoked. He drank and smoked at the board. If you're watching this and you're a little bit young, he drank lots of juice and sometimes water. He was an absolutely fascinating individual. And his chess was like a breath of fresh air. He sacrificed pieces constantly. He attacked and struck fear into the heart of so many of his opponents. And yet at first, nobody took him seriously. They thought that he was just a trickster, that he played like a scammy type of chess. And yet he was one of the only players to have a positive score against players like Bobby Fisher. Okay, I'm going to show you four games from his illustrious chess career, the last of which he played one month before he tragically died in 1992. He came out of a hospital, played against Gary Kasparov, arguably the greatest chess player of all time, and he managed to win. Now, Mikhail Tal said something. He said, there are correct sacrifices. There's two types of sacrifices in chess, correct ones and my own. And he also said, in chess, you have to take your opponent into a deep, dark forest where two plus two is five and the way out is only wide enough for one. You know, I kind of like to play chess like a. I'm not a huge fan of playing chess in a boring way. Let me show you this incredible game that he played against the grandmaster Hans Joaquin Hecht. This was a not. Well at the time. He was not yet a grandmaster. I think he was awarded it a little bit later, but he's still very much alive. I mean, a lot of the chess players from the 20th century have passed away, Mikhail Tal being one of them, from excessive likely smoking and drinking, which he did at the chessboard. But my goodness, I mean, what a player he was. So this one begins as a standard. Two knights, queen's pawn. Black plays Bishop to b four, pinning White's knight. And this game is played in 1962. So theory of the queen's indian and all these openings is not yet fully developed. Tal plays a very principled way, developing all of his pieces. HeCK plays h six, trying to get rid of that bishop pin. And then he takes and plays d six. Very principled stuff. Gives up his dark squared bishop. White no longer has the opportunity to play e four. And now black is going to take a dark squared approach to the game, maybe play e five a little bit later, because he doesn't have that bishop that he traded. And there we go. Now we notice that Tal, he breaks certain principles. He moves his knight backwards, moving it a second time in the opening, but it's because he wants the center. That's what he wants. Tal doesn't calculate. He just plays on instinct. He plays on feel. There's a legend to Tal. One thing I didn't even mention in the introduction, Tal was born with a congenital deformity. He was born with three hands, three hands, three fingers on his right hand. And yet, despite that hardship, that would stop many, many people from doing many things. He was a talented pianist. He could play the piano extremely well while drinking, while smoking, while being a world chess champion. Despite that hardship, his whole legend is just fascinating, just absolutely incredible. And, well, here we go. Here we go. Tal takes the center. He's going to develop his bishop next. There he goes. You'll notice that Hector's playing a very principled game. So many pawns on the dark square. A very maneuvering type of game. A lot of players like to slow down the burning fire. They try to play positionally. Yeah, Tal wasn't going to have any of that. He's not going to get into a long term maneuvering game in this game. He blows open the queenside with the move c five. All right, c five. The idea that when black captures the pawn, which, by the way, he cannot take this, because that would open up the b file, and that would really soften up the queenside. And so dc five was played, and Tal did this. He said, all right, I opened up the queenside. I got snipers at the king. I'm going to give a check. Force black to block somehow. And the best way, oftentimes, to defend against Tal was actually in a confrontational manner. But players would play very passively. They would play very, very passively getting into these kind of, like, closed battles against him because they just feared his power so much. Like a powerful boxer. Queen back to e six. And Tal never stopped. And here he played this move, e five. You'll notice he has completely left his bishop to die. It's because he's ready with a counterpunch right away. He's ready with this move, e five. Right off the bat, he plays e five. And black strikes back with b five. A very, very principal decision, trying to get the queen out of the way, and then he's going to deal with the rest of the stuff. Maybe he'll grab the bishop. He's going to castle. No. This is the kind of player that Tal was. Tal loved to sacrifice, and he just had an instinct. He had a bloodlust for creating this havoc, this controlled chaos on the board. And in this position, with a queen hanging, with a knight hanging, with a bishop hanging. Mikhail. Tal sacrificed all of them and captured this knight on f six. Left all of his pieces out to die. You can't grab all three at once, all right? You just can't do it. It's not a free for all, all right? It's not a free for all. If you try to take the queen, you best be sure to hang on. You can't take anything else. You're not going to castle because the queen is still going to be hanging. So he took. Now, Tal was able to get away with a move like this because his pieces are well oiled and coordinated to target his opponent right after the queen is captured. So Tal plays on instinct. He is like an avalanche. He is like a train whose brakes have broken. He captures on g seven simultaneously threatening to get a rook, but also reopening the diagonal for the bishop. All his pieces work together. Rook g eight. And now the culmination of the sacrifice. It is actually not rook to e one, which looks like it wins a queen because it loses a bishop and a rook in the process. And when the dust settles, Tal would be a full rook down. He could grab the bishop on his way out, but then he would lose this. This is under fire. And he loses the end game. No. Tal did one of two things. Tal either completely took his opponent's soul, or he would lead them into a deep, dark forest. And the road out of it would only be wide enough for one. And it would be for him. And the dust would settle, and he would be winning in an end game. Bishop to f five. Sacrificing another piece, another piece. And another piece. All three pieces are hanging, and yet they all work beautifully because you got to choose who you're going for. If you take the bishop, I get knight to d six, and I win the queen, and I emerge in a better end game. That very well could be the best move you can take on h four. Right now. You'll notice stockfish is kind of, like, demystifying the white attack. But when you played against Tall, you had to defend perfectly. He took the bishop, bishop e six. And then he tried to go for this. Tall just bulldozes in with more pieces. King e seven. And beautifully gets out of danger, saving his rook, defending the bishop. And black still could maybe hang on. And he goes g three. Grabs this bishop, takes a six. But like I always, like I said, when the dust settled, Tal was left in a game where he was down a pawn, but Black had 1234 islands doubled and completely shattered pawn structure. And White was better. White is better in an endgame, despite being a full pawn down. All of this made possible by the fact that when his queen was attacked, he played pawn to f six, shredding open the center of the board, forcing his opponent to dance at his pace, escapes into the end game, and he converts it expertly. The beautiful thing about Tal was he wasn't just an attacker. He had control of the game in every phase. And black ultimately succumbs to the pressure. There is not much to be done. We go to an endgame. Rook a six. Rook f six. Look at all of Black's pieces falling at the end of the day. Tal was trained in the pioneer school of chess under the tutelage of Kablanz. And I will actually show you a game a little bit later, which he played against his trainer. But every strong grandmaster of that generation was just bulletproof at endgames, and this one is no different. An incredible sequence of moves where he took down the german grandmaster in an incredible flurry. And remember, I am ending the video. The game that he played a month before his death and beating Gary Kasparov, which is just otherworldly, just otherworldly contribution to the legend. Here is a game that he played against his trainer, Kablenz. And let me just verify, actually, that Kablenz did get the grand Master title, because there are players. I'm not actually sure he did. He might have been an international master chess title. Yeah, grandmaster titles were, like, instituted in the mid 20th century, so officially, he might have not even been a grandmaster. You know what? I'm going to leave it, because out of respect for all his accomplishments, I will leave it. It might not be accurate, but I don't want to demote him to my title because me and Kablens do not deserve the same title. I'm an international master. As far as I'm concerned. He was a grandmaster of the game. This was a game played in 1957. It's one of the most unbelievable games I've ever seen in my life. It is a rouser variation, sicilian. And the motto of this game is, when you play tal, do not play the sicilian defense. Just don't do it. Now, there actually is a variation of the Karl Khan defense named after Tal because he loved aggressive stuff. This is literally called the Tal variation. So if you play the advanced Karl Khan, Bishop F five, H four, you're playing the Tal variation. Now, this one was a rouser variation. Tal did not need a second invitation. He got his king, castled queenside as fast as possible, looking to create an attack. Castles by black. Knight to b three. Queen b six. And there he went against his sensei, against his trainer, rook to d eight. And now tall was like, look, man, chess is a simple game. Let me get my bishop back to hit the queen. Black is going to get to play b five. But I don't care, because here we go. This is everything you wanted when you saw Tal playing a chess game. I mean, it was like a heavyweight boxer. I'm telling you. Look at g five. Absolutely no doubts in his mind. He doesn't even make a preparatory move. There's no king b one. There's no. Let me get all of this settled. 97. And now Tal plays a move that I don't get, a move that stockfish doesn't even fully understand. Stockfish wants to play h five and make preparatory moves. This man Tal says, you know what? What am I waiting for? G six completely giving the pawn up to two different pawns they can capture. Black will probably take this way to keep everything intact, because if black goes this way, this is weak. This is open. But G six is a mesmerizing sacrifice, because now it's like, wait a minute. That's not the move that white wanted to play. He has no business playing that move. Tal had no business playing any damn move. He had no business playing any damn move. The soviet school of chess thought that he was a scam artist, that his chess was not worthy. And look at this. And look at this. Now, he created a hook. He created a pawn in front of his opponent's king. And look at Stockfish suddenly appreciating his sacrifice. G h five. Rook h five doesn't matter. All he gets is long term attacking prospects. The knight has to go back to f six. Now the rook goes back to h one. Queen is coming. That's mate. How do you defend it? With black. Black does what you're supposed to do. Strikes back in the center of the board, simultaneously preventing queen h two and ready to open up this. And you know what Tal played in this position, this next move that he played is so disrespectful. It is so ridiculous. The computer here gives Bishop f four, clearing this maneuver and then bringing the pawns forward. You know what's all played in this position against d five, he played the move e five. His moves are so God level. Stockfish needs time to calculate them. You'll notice that against d five, Stockfish very quickly spits out bishop f four plus 1.8. But e five, if you take with the queen, is completely lost because the queen is trapped. And Tal knew that by deflecting his opponent's knight away from his king and blocking this diagonal, he would seize the diagonal. He would get this attack roaring forward and the defense would be borderline untenable. The computer at this point wants to run the king to the center of the board. Knight takes e five. Of course, now, modern day, we have 2700 engine. It says, just go queen h two. Just go queen h two. Mikhail, just play it. Because then obviously you have queen h eight, mate. And if the king runs, you go here, et cetera. But Tal was stockfish back in the day. Knight takes e five. He does all of this. Stockfish at this point, claiming that the king run is good. Look at him go. Now Tal plays rook h seven, stockpiling the pressure. Now stockfish begins reconsidering again. It has no idea what is going on. So Kablenz plays f five. Bishop h six. Look at this armada arriving on the h file. And suddenly stockfish is like, uhoh, uhoh. This is really, really good. You can't take because of this. So we play Rook d seven, adding more defense. And now a shot to the other side of the board. Bishop takes b five. The bishop comes alive on the 25th move of the game. It's been dormant. It is one of the only pieces of the white position that has not moved. And it snipes down upon a pawn that was going to be used to attack the white king. You cannot take. You cannot take because then you would be inviting trouble. And also rook g one. This is the idea to put 22 points of pressure on the g seven square, which becomes untenable. Black plays Rook f seven, rook g one. The bishop snipes the king from all angles that Kablanza's position is disintegrating. This is absolutely, bro. I've never seen anything like this. And now here comes his knight. Tal is literally going to get every single piece that he has into the attack. Knight g four is the best move, by the way, defending himself by sacrificing. But Black's position is impossible to defend in the long run. Tal doesn't take any step back. This is under attack, this is under pressure. This is ready to open at a moment's notice. The knight is just ready. This knight is the last piece that has yet to get into the game. It perishes. Tal doesn't even need it. He plays Bishop back to e three. Stepping back, hitting the rook here, the computer finds like perfect defense. The evaluation bar is like the cold shower of Tal's games because you're supposed to go here. And that's the way that this 36 50 preserves its power. It's almost better to analyze Tal games without that because no human at that time could find variations like pawn to d four, sending the bishop back. And who knows, Tal would have probably found rook g h one, giving up his bishop for queen g eight, king g eight, rook h eight, mate. So sometimes it's not even worth it because the computer doesn't even fully appreciate some of his moves. He is literally finding moves where the computer has to reconsider. So he played bishop back to e three, creating the threat of Bishop C five. On the attack on the king, the rook, he left the bishop hanging. He left that Bishop hanging. He doesn't take the rook d four, rook h one, rook to d seven. And now apparently G takes f five, is also winning. He goes right back, stops the king's escape. And as always, the computer is just like trying to be a buzkill here. Black takes on b five, rook h six. Tal is down four points of material. The knight is swarming the king. The bishop is swarming the king. White's king, by the way, has no defenders left, just pawns, just a matter of time. But you cannot stop the attack. You can take the knight. White has rook f six. And then there's a forced draw here. G f six, Bishop H six, rook g seven, Bishop G seven, king e seven, Bishop F six, king d six, Bishop E five, king d five, rook a seven. And apparently this is a draw. The black king marches into the center of the board. No human on the planet would have done that against Tal in the middle 20, mid 20th century. And instead, the white king slides to stop the pawn, and the game is over. The game is over. Queen C six, rook f six. Check. The attack swarms in. You can't take the queen, and black resigns because you're going to get here. Queen is just too slow to get to the king. What a game. What a game. What a swarm. Look at this attack. Absolutely incredible. Bishop H six, rook g one. Every single piece utilized. Every single piece utilized melting the souls of his opponents is Mikhail Tal just the other worldly level of the game and a level of understanding. I got two more for you. I got the iconic game that Tal played in the 1960 World Chess championship match against Butvinik. When he won the world championship at 23 years old, he beat an incumbent champion who changed chess forever. The Butfinik school of chess produced some of the greatest prodigies known to humans, some of the greatest players known to humans in 20th and now 21st century chess. And he beat him. He beat him in 1960. And it was a sensation. And the way that he beat Butfinik, who was a technician, he was a surgeon chess player. He was incredible. He played these positional games is he took him to a deep, dark forest of the king's indian defense. He closed the center. He created some stability. But then he would just attack. He would attack, and it would be magical. He could attack with white and he could attack with black. He would use his pawns. He would use his pieces. Rook c eight. Knight to h five. Queen on b four, hitting from all three sides. But yet the white position, stable as a rock, because that's the type of player that Butfinik was. But Tal would play moves like Rook c four. He would bring his rooks, and he would attack on all three sides of the board. Like I said, traditional evaluation of stockfish allows stockfish to retain some sort of advantage by poking holes in the mystique of the game. And this is very comforting. But what if I turn this off? What if you don't have an evaluation bar and you have to sit here and face the wrath of Tal? Let's flip it back to White's perspective to feel like what it feels to be Tal's opponents, to face the wrath, to face the complications. Black is coming to attack you over here. So you capture because, you know black cannot capture with the pawn because you will take his knight. So bishop takes. Well, that's easy. Now, Black doesn't have any imposing pawns. He can't even make any forward progress. Well, our rook is hanging, so we go here, and our plan is to go g four, a three, kick out the queen, et cetera, et cetera. And then Mikhail Tal, 23 years of age in the year 1960, arrives on the kingside with his knight, allowing a full piece capture, a full capture of a knight to the incumbent best player in the world, Mikhail Botovinik, in 1960, gives up the knight not for two, but for one pawn. One pawn. Now, white here can strike back. He backs up the bishop and he allows queen takes b two. He says, you know what? You can have a second pawn, but then we're going to begin trading pieces. Tal says, okay, you see, that was the kind of player that Tal was. He was like, all right, you want to give me a second pawn? Okay. There's only one way out of his deep, dark forest. We pressure this, we pressure this, this and this. It's chaos. The best move now for Batvinik is to play Rook to b one, which he does, giving up his rook. The point is that the queen gets stuck. The queen is going to get stuck. It's a very, very dangerous position for Black Rook b one. But here, Tal says, you know what? I took two pawns. Now it's time to attack the integrity. It's time to attack the nucleus, the epicenter of the white position. All his pieces tied together. F three. The shot from the side you can't take with the queen because the queen takes the bishop and the white position falls apart. But I got news for you, taking like this is also very dangerous because you open up a direct line of attack on your king. That also feels very uncomfortable. For example, takes here, you try to go for bishop to e four. Well, now I'm going to sacrifice because all of this is open. That wasn't open before 94. Queen b one. What's going to happen here? Apparently, apparently, after all of this, queen e six, et cetera, white has good chances. But that's the thing. Tal set these situational problems for his opponents. They had to outcalculate him for ten moves, and they couldn't, they couldn't outcalculate him. Rook takes b two. He grabs the queen of Batvinik. Batvini plays rook b three. Now the rooks are dancing. But Phoenix, by the way, let it be known, is a full piece up. White is up a full knight, but the attack is swirling. The pawn is a square away from queening. And then in this position, Rook takes c three. Was actually lethal, trying to get the rook to d one. But Tal found the second best way, according to the machine, which is bishop to f four. And when it's all said and done, he plays this endgame, like I said, deep, dark forest. But when the path out is only wide enough for one, it doesn't matter how he wins. He could checkmate you or like he did in the last game, or he can get you into an end game where you're suffocating. He is also extremely high level. In the last stage of the game. He doesn't always need tactics and sacrifices. He completely paralyzes the white position, something that Butfinik used to do to all of his opponents. Dances back grabs a pawn, grabs another pawn and. But Phoenix was frozen, frozen on the back rank. Two pawns down, Bishop C four. Even if he gets one of them back, this defense is untenable. He gives a couple of checks, the king runs out. Rook a three. And just d five. Bishop H four, swarming. It's one pawn. But, my lord, is it a quality pawn? And for a second time in a row in this video, Tal gets it done. In the last stage of the game, there's just no stopping this. Pawn c three. The king comes forward, but Phoenix plays this and resigns because the king is going to dance down to c one. The pawn will go to c two, and you will move the king and you will promote. And that's the way it feels to deal with Tal. You don't know which side of the board he's going to get you. It's like a mixed martial art. He might kick you, he might wrestle you, he might punch you. I mean, it's like any sport. He's lethal. He could shoot the three, he could shoot the two. He's one of the most versatile players of all time, and he can get it done in every single phase. And like I said, tal led a crazy lifestyle. That's what the legend says. He led a crazy lifestyle. He smoked and drank the board. He had a record in the 1959 Candidates tournament against Bobby Fisher of four and O. He laughed at a move that Bobby played at the chessboard. That's the kind of man that he was. But that type of lifestyle will catch up to you. And Tal was sick. He was sick in the. Probably even, I mean, who knows? Back in that day, probably sick earlier as well. But he came out of the hospital, the legend goes, in 1992 to play a blitz tournament, a blitz tournament in which Gary Kasparov was participating. In 1992, Kasparov had defended his world championship four times at that point, and he had played five world championship matches against Karpov. Kasparov was the best player in the world since becoming world champion. He was the best player in the world for 20 years, probably. Tal came out of retirement and this was a blitz tournament. Excuse me. Tal came out of the hospital. The hospital, not retirement, to play this game. It was e four and it was bishop b five. Check. It was this type of sicilian defense. Knight d seven. Very confrontational, very weird. Pawns not getting taken. This was a blitz game, remember? Knight takes e six. Kasparov played like this. And even at the age of 90, excuse me. Even in 1992, at the age of 56, Tal didn't need second invitation. Queen on c seven, rook to e one. All his pieces ready to go. One of these bad boys is going to open up that center. Kasparov took a lot of time in the opening, and he tried to push back Tal's pieces. He was kind of ready. He was ready for one of these pieces to rip it open. He's playing all the best moves. He's looking to pressure here. Now, Tal plays f four. F four. And the thing is, if you play knight g six or even knight c four, this is lethal. This is a very common sicilian sacrifice that opens the center and black can't cover himself. King d seven is queen g four. Mate. Can you imagine Kasparov losing a game like this? No, of course not. Kasparov was one of the best calculators in the world. And he found h six. He found a very nice idea here. With all of this under pressure, the only move here is g five. Counterattacking white again. The point is, if you play knight g six, well, easy. I go here and then I continue my attack. Your knight is actually a target, which is all Tal needed. So Kasparov had to strike back. We've got two of the best calculating players of all time. Tal, in this position, took the knight g, takes h four. All this pandemonium. Is he going to open up the center? What is he going to do? He is. He is going to open up the center with e takes d six. Bishop takes d six. Knight to d five. Wow. Tal roars in, sacrificing a Knight again. Easy with this here. How do you defend yourself? E takes d five. E takes d five with the attack here and now. Black plays king f eight. And Tal plays queen f three. The threat is knight to e six. The threat is rook f one. Doubling up, tripling up. Maybe rook to e six in some lines as well. Then bring this rook over here. Black can grab a pawn and try to get out with like, bishop to g three. But that's very, very dangerous stuff you're playing with. Now, the fascinating thing about this game is that this is where it ends. If you look at any database, this is where the game ends. How is that possible? Well, apparently Kasparov lost on time. Apparently so much energy and initiative was being put here on Kasparov that he spent a lot of time in this game finding moves like h six and bishop and g five. That's just how the story goes. Another legend of this game goes, this game was actually much longer than 17 moves. We just don't have the 17 moves. But one thing that is true from this game is I believe Kasparov himself, in an interview said this was the only game that he lost in this tournament in 1992. Of course, he was the best player in the world at the time, multiple time world champion already. So Kasparov won a tournament in 1992, and the only player who he lost to was Mikhail Tal a month before he died. Think about that. That is incredible stuff. This is really, truly the stuff of legends. Michael Tal is without question one of, if not the most interesting chess player who has ever lived. He is a creative genius. He would attack on a level like nobody else. You wouldn't even need to calculate certain variations. The level of panic he instilled into his opponents was unbelievable. Another one of his famous quotes was that he elevated his level in chess when he realized that he wasn't the only one nervous at the board. So were his opponents. His opponents were just as uncertain about their moves as he was. And that played into his hands. That played to his benefit. I wanted to dedicate a video to him. His games are unbelievable. I mean, I could cover 20 games in a video, his history. Maybe I will do that. If you have a favorite game of tal you want me to cover in the future or certain tournaments, do. Let me know in the comments and I'll see you in the next video. Get out of here.